---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K660004"
author: Reporter
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K660004)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K660004:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K660004:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K660004)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[13 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K660004)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K660004)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)

Reporter

# Part:BBa_K660004

Designed by: Glasgow Uni 2011   Group: iGEM11_GlasgowUni   (2011-09-16)

iLOV

iLOV is a a variant of LOV2 (<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K660000>) which
has been isolated over time as it shows better fluorescence and photo-
stabiltility.

For your convenience, a separate BioBrick (BBa_K660003) has been created which
is already ligated to a strong RBS and double terminator, making iLOV the
ideal reporter for characterisation of new promoters. The page for this
Biobrick is located here: (<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K660003>).

In studies whereby it has been used in comparison to GFP to track plant
infections, it has outperformed GFP. It is much smaller than GFP at around 300
bp as opposed to 700 bp, and for this reason it better suited as a reporter
for the movement of things such as viruses, and tagging of small proteins.
Unlike GFP which photo-bleaches irreversibly, iLOV undergoes spontaneous
recovery from photo-bleaching under high intensity exposure to UV. This photo-
bleaching reversibility is due to the changing state between the fluorescent
and non-fluorescent form of the bound FMN chromopore

"![Ilovversusgfp.jpg](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/4/41/Ilovversusgfp.jpg)

Figure 1: Digram showing movement of TMV (tobacco mosaic virus). On the left
shows TMV with iLOV, and the centre and right show TMV with GFP. We can see
that TMViLOV shows systemic infection, whereas TMVGFP shows poor, or no
infection.Image taken from: Chapman, S. et al (2008) The photo-reversible
fluorescent protein iLOV outperforms GFP as a reporter of plant virus
infection. PNAS, 105 (50) pp. 20038 - 20043

(Full article available at: <http://www.pnas.org/content/105/50/20038.full>)

  
![Ilovephotobleaching.JPG](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/6/65/Ilovephotobleaching.JPG)

Figure 2: Image demonstrating photo-bleaching reversibility of iLOV. Left –
iLOV pre-bleach, Centre – iLOV post-bleach, and Right – iLOV post-recovery.
Image taken from Chapman et al (2008) The photo-reversible fluorescent protein
iLOV outperforms GFP as a reporter of plant virus infection. PNAS, 105 (50)
pp. 20038 - 20043

(Full article available at: <http://www.pnas.org/content/105/50/20038.full>)

Another advantage of LOV in comparison to other fluorescent proteins is it's
ability to work in anoxic conditions, making it ideally suited to work within
biofilms. Fluorescent imaging of iLOV can be done by using an excitation
wavelength of 476nm, with fluorescent emission between 510 and 550 nm.
(Chapman et al 2008)

This protein has been codon optimised for E.coli expression.

**Exeter iGEM 2014**

As part of the Exeter 2014 project iLOV was used as a reporter in two
constructs. iLOV was used to test the effectiveness of a NemR upstream
intergenic region (<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1398005>) in part
BBa_1398004 (<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1398004>). Part BBa_1398007
(<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1398007>) used iLOV to test the
effectiveness of a NemR recognizing promoter, part BBa_1398008
(<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_1398008>).

(Full article available
at:<http://2014.igem.org/Team:Exeter/Detection#TheNemRpromoterconstruct%28BBa_K1398007%29>)

As part of their project the fluorescence topography of iLOV was mapped. The
response of iLOV to a low power light source was also explored. The
fluorescence response of iLOV was greatest when excited with photons of
wavelength 449±1nm whilst photon emissions where detected at a wavelength of
494±2nm.

![Exeter2014_iLOV_ResizedBroad.png](http://2014.igem.org/wiki/images/e/e7/Exeter2014_iLOV_ResizedBroad.png)

(Full article available at:
<http://2014.igem.org/Team:Exeter/iLOVCharacterisation>)

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K660004)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

