---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K538000"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K538000)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K538000:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K538000:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K538000)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[8 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K538000)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K538000)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

Cpn10

# Part:BBa_K538000

Designed by: Bas Stringer (Sequence by Paul van Dieken)   Group:
iGEM11_Amsterdam   (2011-07-28)

### Cpn10 ( _O. antarctica_ )

[![](/wiki/images/5/55/Cpn10-60_graphs.gif)](/File:Cpn10-60_graphs.gif)

Figure 1: (a) _E. coli_ 's growth rate as a function of temperature, in
strains that do (white circles) or do not (black circles) express _Cpn60/10_ ,
and (b) _in vitro_ refolding activities of _Cpn60/10_ as a function of
temperature (black circles), compared with that of _E. coli_ 's endogenous
_GroEL/ES_ (white circles). **Adapted from Ferrer _et al._ (2003)**

This BioBrick encodes the protein _cochaperonin 10_ , which is part of the
_Cpn60/10_ chaperone system of _Oleispira antarctica_. When coexpressed with
_chaperonin 60_ ( _Cpn60_ , [ BBa_K538001](/Part:BBa_K538001 "Part:BBa
K538001")), it forms a heteromultimer that can refold enzymes at very low
temperatures, thus safeguarding their functionality. This has been shown to
enable _E. coli_ to grow even at freezing point. (Figure 1)

  

### Usage

This part is used in several cold resistance BioBricks, or CryoBricks,
developed by team [Amsterdam 2011](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Amsterdam). At
the time of this writing, these parts contain both **BBa_K538000** and [
BBa_K538001](/Part:BBa_K538001 "Part:BBa K538001"):

  * [ BBa_K538210](/Part:BBa_K538210 "Part:BBa K538210"): a Cpn10/60 operon with the pLacI promoter
  * [ BBa_K538211](/Part:BBa_K538211 "Part:BBa K538211"): a Cpn60/10 operon with the pLacI promoter
  * [ BBa_K538310](/Part:BBa_K538310 "Part:BBa K538310"): a Cpn10/60 operon with the pBAD promoter
  * [ BBa_K538311](/Part:BBa_K538210 "Part:BBa K538210"): a Cpn60/10 operon with the pBAD promoter

For an up-to-date list of all parts containing just **BBa_K538000** , refer to
the [related
parts](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/related.cgi?part=BBa_K538000) page.

  

### Biology

_Cpn10_ and _Cpn60_ are homologous to _GroES_ and _GroEL_ of _E. coli_ ,
respectively. The _GroEL/ES_ chaperone system promotes the folding and/or
assembly of over 30% of _E. coli'_ s cellular proteins, is required for
bacteriophage morphogenesis and has a role in protein
secretion.[[1]](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v355/n6355/abs/355033a0.html)[[2]](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/1521-3773%2820020402%2941:7%3C1098::AID-
ANIE1098%3E3.0.CO;2-9/abstract) However, it rapidly loses its refolding
activity at temperatures below
37°C.[[3]](http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v21/n11/pdf/nbt1103-1266b.pdf)
(Figure 1b) _Cpn60/10_ , on the other hand, functions very well at these
temperatures.

Ferrer _et al._ identified 22 housekeeping proteins involved with _E. coli_ 's
systems failure at low temperatures. They went on to demonstrate their
interactions with chaperones are key determinants of activity at these
temperatures. It was shown that the _Cpn60_ protein from _O. antarctica_
coprecipitates with many of the proteins found in the proteome of _E.
coli_.[[4]](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/pmic.200500031/abstract)
Also, by transforming _E. coli_ with _Cpn10_ and _Cpn60_ , they've enabled it
to grow even at freezing point. (Figure 1a) Their findings suggest
inactivation of a few cold-sensitive key proteins causes systems failure in
_E. coli_ , and that cells may be 'rescued' by reactivating these genes.

  

### Characterisation

Ferrer _et al._ have already shown the _Cpn60/10_ system to have a nameworthy
impact on _E. coli'_ s cold tolerance. Unfortunately, this brick's developers
only managed to assemble a protein generator comprising _Cpn10_ 's coding
region. Reproducing the results of Ferrer _et al._ would have required
coexpression of _Cpn10_ and _Cpn60_ , so this impossible.

Attempts **were** made to characterise whether or not _Cpn10_ expression can
bestow a certain degree of cold resistance independent of _Cpn60_. According
to expectation, _Cpn10_ doesn't significantly affect _E. coli_ 's specific
growth rate at suboptimal temperatures. Refer to the part's
[experience](/Part:BBa_K538000:Experience "Part:BBa K538000:Experience") page
for the graph summarizing the _Cpn10_ generator's growth rate investigation.

In addition to investigating the effect of _Cpn10_ on growth rate a suboptimal
temperatures, the effect its expression has on freeze/thaw cycle survival was
characterised. During this experiment, a most remarkable observation was made;
the data suggests _Cpn10_ enhances _E. coli_ 's freeze/thaw survival rate in
and of itself, without being coexpressed with _Cpn60_. Experiments to verify
or falsify this suggestion are currently being prepared and executed. This
section will be updated in due time.

  

### Safety

There are risks involved with enhancing bacterial cold resistance and
facilitating their growth at low temperatures. Please refer to the [safety
page](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Amsterdam/Project/Safety) of this brick's
developers.

  

### References

  1. **Gething & Sambrook** Protein folding in the cell, _Nature 355, 33–45_ (1992)
  2. **Walter & Buchner** Molecular Chaperones — Cellular Machines for Protein Folding, _Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Eng. 41, 1098–1113_ (2002)
  3. **Ferrer _et al._** Chaperonins govern growth of _Escherichia coli_ at low temperatures, _Nat. Biotech. 21, 1266 - 1267_ (2003)
  4. **Strocchi, Ferrer, Timmis & Golyshin** Low temperature-induced systems failure in _Escherichia coli_ : Insights from rescue by cold-adapted chaperones, _Proteomics 6 (1), 193-206_ (2005)

  

### Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 52  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K538000 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: -0.2 ± 4.0%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K538000)]

Categories

Parameters

family| GroES chaperonins| function| Cochaperone| origin| Oleispira antarctica
RB-8| target| Proteins| uniprot| Q8KM31

