---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K769001"
author: Device
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K769001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K769001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K769001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K769001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[1 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K769001)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K769001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_device.png)

Device

# Part:BBa_K769001

Designed by: Genki Sakai   Group: iGEM12_Tokyo-NoKoGen   (2012-09-19)

PompC-RBS-GFP-Double terminator

When OmpC promotor is activated by phosphorylated OmpR, GFP is expressed.

![Safety.png](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/8/84/Safety.png)

  

### Usage and Biology

## Contribution: Universitas Indonesia 2019

**Group:** Universitas Indonesia / **Authors:** Raysha Farah, Eko Ngadiono

**Highest expression of GFP in TOP10 E. coli strain due to differences in OmpC
promoter regulation**  

### Aims

The aim of this study is to characterize Part: BBa_K769001 which is a PompC-
RBS-GFP-Double terminator in 3 different bacterial strains. In order to choose
a suitable bacterial strain for our project, we used 3 different bacterial
strains based on their cloning, subcloning and expression capabilities. For
this study we will be using E. coli strains TOP10, which is a high efficiency
strain ideal for cloning large plasmids and BACs so has a high copy vector,
DH5a, which maximizes transformation efficiency too, and BL21, which is an
ideal strain for expression vectors. The presence of ompC promoter in the
BBa_K769001 construct may lead to different expression and regulation of GFP
on these bacterial strains hence we use these variety of bacterial strains. We
will be using a plate reader to measure the fluorescence of the transformed
bacterial strains.

### Experiments

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/e/e8/TOP10%2C_BL21%2C_DH5A_OG.jpeg/700px-
TOP10%2C_BL21%2C_DH5A_OG.jpeg)](/File:TOP10,_BL21,_DH5A_OG.jpeg)

[](/File:TOP10,_BL21,_DH5A_OG.jpeg "Enlarge")

Figure 1. These are all of the bacteria (TOP10, DH5a, and BL21) expressing
Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) that had ben successfully transformed.

  
This part contains the OmpC promoter, a promoter regulated by OmpR, and
contains Green Fluorescent Protein at its downstream. OmpC is the outer
membrane porin that is only expressed when the environment osmolarity is high.
Therefore, when the environment is in high osmolarity, ompC promoter will be
highly activated and express more GFP in the end. In this experiment, we
characterized 3 types of bacteria (TOP10, DH5a, and BL21) that contains part
(BBa_K769001) into various sodium concentration for 12 hours (Figure 1). The
sodium concentration that we used were: 85.5 mM (low salt), 171mM (normal
Luria-Bertani broth), 256.6 mM, 342 mM, and 427 mM.

Before performing this characterization, we had plotted the standard curve
obtained from iGEM kit for fluorescence measurement. We did not measure the
OD600 of the bacteria because the value generated from iGEM fluorescence
measurement kit is in MEFL/E.coli particles. Emission of GFP were read at
520nm. The experiment were performed using the same equipments and under the
same condition as when during the measurement of the standard curve. All of
the results and values presented above were generated from Excel file provided
by iGEM. All step were followed according to iGEM's protocols.

  

### Results

We confirmed the expression of GFP by using SDS PAGE in various bacteria and
various osmolarity (Figure 2). The result of SDS-PAGE was consistent with our
findings where the expression of GFP (26.9 kDA) was indeed increased from low
osmolarity to high osmolarity (Figure 3).

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/13/SDS_OG_1.png/800px-
SDS_OG_1.png)](/File:SDS_OG_1.png)

[](/File:SDS_OG_1.png "Enlarge")

Figure 2. SDS-PAGE result of GFP expression. Red arrows indicate GFP protein
(27 kDa). WT indicates wild-type bacteria. Lane 1-5 indicates 85.5 mM (low
salt), 171 mM (normal LB broth), 256.5 mM, 342 mM and 427.5 mM sodium
concentration treatment respectively

Table 1. The Absorbance (OD 600) of TOP10, DH5a and BL21 bacteria transformed
with OmpC/GFP (treated with various concentration of sodium) in duplicates

[![BR ABS.png](/wiki/images/thumb/5/5c/BR_ABS.png/900px-
BR_ABS.png)](/File:BR_ABS.png)

[](/File:BR_ABS.png "Enlarge")

  
Table 2. The Fluorescence (520 nm) of TOP10, DH5a and BL21 bacteria
transformed with OmpC/GFP (treated with various concentration of sodium) in
duplicates

[![BR FLR.png](/wiki/images/thumb/9/99/BR_FLR.png/850px-
BR_FLR.png)](/File:BR_FLR.png)

[](/File:BR_FLR.png "Enlarge")

  
Table 3. The MEFL/ particles of TOP10, DH5a and BL21 bacteria transformed with
OmpC/GFP (treated with various concentration of sodium) in duplicates

[![BR MELF.png](/wiki/images/thumb/b/bc/BR_MELF.png/900px-
BR_MELF.png)](/File:BR_MELF.png)

[](/File:BR_MELF.png "Enlarge")

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a9/Ecoli_gfp_in_various_nacl_.png/500px-
Ecoli_gfp_in_various_nacl_.png)](/File:Ecoli_gfp_in_various_nacl_.png)

[](/File:Ecoli_gfp_in_various_nacl_.png "Enlarge")

Figure 3. These are the level of GFP expression of the bacteria (TOP10, DH5a,
and BL21) containing part BBa_K769001 after inoculation in LB broth in various
sodium concentration for 12 hours.

  
The plate reader results for the fluorescence intensity of GFP
(MEFL/particles) in three bacterial strains TOP10, DH5a and BL21 are obtained
from our plate reading after all of these bacteria were inoculated in LB broth
for 12 hours (Figure 3). Essentially, all strains of bacteria showed increased
fluorescence with increasing NaCl concentrations in LB medium with the highest
expression at 427mM. Interestingly, all bacteria showed to have decreased
fluorescence when sodium concentration were increased from 171 mM to 256.6 mM.
We had searched multiple papers but questions remain unanswered. There need to
be further studies to determine this phenomenon. As expected, when the sodium
concentration was to be increased from 256.6 mM to 342 mM, fluorescence
readings increased. Fluorescence readings were at its peak when sodium
concentration were 427 mM.

  

### Discussion and Conclusion

TOP10 has relatively higher MEFL/particles to be compared with BL21. This is
contradicting our thinking that TOP10 will have a lower expression compared to
BL21 because BL21 is a protein-expressing-bacteria while TOP10 is bacteria
mainly functional for increasing plasmid count (cloning). A possible reason
for this phenomenon is that there are differences in ompC promoter regulation
in different bacterial strains. OmpR-regulated promoter mediated gene
expression even in the absence of its transcription factor.(1) According to a
characterization done by SDU-Denmark (BBa_R0082), it is found that OmpR-
regulated promoter showed a high leaky expression in high copy vectors (e.g.
TOP10) compared to low copy vectors (e.g. BL21) confirming our findings in our
characterization. (2) From the results, DH5a then BL21 showed a gradual
increase in expression with increasing NaCl concentrations in LB medium. This
indicates that DH5a and BL21 has a much more efficient control of gene
expression with the ompC promoter.

Through this results, we hope that other teams who are considering using this
part will consider which bacteria that is most appropriate for their research.

  
Reference:

1\. Levskaya A, Chevalier AA, Tabor JJ, Simpson ZB, Lavery LA, Levy M, et al.
Engineering Escherichia coli to see light. Nature [Internet]. 2005 Nov 23
[cited 2019 Oct 16];438(7067):441â€“2. Available from:
<http://www.nature.com/articles/nature04405>

2\. SDU Denmark. BBa_R0082. iGEM
[Internet].<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_R0082#Contribution:_Hamburg_2016>

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BamHI site found at 656  
Illegal XhoI site found at 557  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K769001)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

