---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K398331"
author: Measurement
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K398331)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K398331:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K398331:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K398331)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K398331)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_measurement.png)

Measurement

# Part:BBa_K398331

Designed by: Kira Schipper   Group: iGEM10_TU_Delft   (2010-10-07)

pCaiF-B0032 measurement device

pCaiF is a promoter region from _E.coli_ containing the binding site for the
global regulator Crp which is expressed during periods of starvation. Under,
for example, glucose limiting circumstances pCaiF activates transcription.
pCaiF is tightly regulated by cAMP levels.

  
The characterization and results of BBa_K398331 are described on the
[BBa_K398326 (promoter) BioBrick page](/Part:BBa_K398326 "Part:BBa K398326")
and on the [TU Delft iGEM Team 2010
wiki](http://2010.igem.org/Team:TU_Delft/Project/sensing)

  

  

## Team SEU-Nanjing-China's 2019 Characterization

[Team SEU-Nanjing-China ](http://https://2019.igem.org/Team:SEU-Nanjing-China)
measured this part BBa_K398331.Our aim is to characterize the pCaiF promoter.
We are very interested in this promoter. According to the description of this
part, pCaiF is a natural promoter found in _E. coli K12_ , which regulates the
expression of genes involved in the degradation of non-glucose carbon sources.
The promoter is regulated by the level of cAMP. Because decomposition product
of glucose auses decrease of cAMP, on the contrary, at low glucose level, the
level of cAMP increases. CRP binds to cAMP to form complex cAMP-CRP. cAMP-CRP
binds to pCaiF and activates the transcription of downstream components.
Therefore, we hope to observe the experimental results: the expression of GFP
in high glucose should be lower than that in low glucose.

1、We prepared LB medium with 5 different concentration of glucose, each
concentration containing triplicate. The 5 concentration of glucose are
0.5g/L, 1g/L, 2g/L, 5g/L, 10g/L, LB medium without glucose as control. The
E.coli grew in 15mL medium.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/6/61/T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Single_Colony.png/300px-T--
SEU-Nanjing-China--Single_Colony.png)](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--
Single_Colony.png)

[](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Single_Colony.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 1.** Single colony successfully expressing GFP.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/3/36/T--SEU-Nanjing-China--GROUP3.png/600px-T--SEU-
Nanjing-China--GROUP3.png)](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--GROUP3.png)

[](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--GROUP3.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 2.** LB medium with 5 different concentration of glucose, each
concentration containing triplicate. The 5 concentration of glucose are
0.5g/L, 1g/L, 2g/L, 5g/L, 10g/L, LB medium without glucose as control.

2、Incubate at 37℃, 120rpm. We monitored the growth of cells by measuring OD600
every 1h.

3、After 10h, the OD600 reached 0.3-0.6. We measured GFP fluorescence and
accurate OD600.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b8/T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Table1.png/460px-T--SEU-
Nanjing-China--Table1.png)](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Table1.png)

[](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Table1.png "Enlarge")

**Table 1.** We measured GFP fluorescence and accurate OD600 after the OD600
reached 0.3-0.6,and organize the data into this table.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/f/f0/T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Table2.png/460px-T--SEU-
Nanjing-China--Table2.png)](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Table2.png)

[](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Table2.png "Enlarge")

**Table 2.** We measured GFP fluorescence and accurate OD600 after the OD600
reached 0.3-0.6,and organize the data into this table.

4、We construct Particle Standard Curve and Fluorescence Standard Curve, and
use them to convert OD600 to cells amounts, and GFP fluorescence to the number
of GFP molecules.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/7/7a/T--SEU-Nanjing-China--GFP_Cell.png/500px-T--SEU-
Nanjing-China--GFP_Cell.png)](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--GFP_Cell.png)

[](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--GFP_Cell.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 3.** This is the cell concentration corresponding to the fluorescence
intensity at different glucose concentrations.

  
Apparently, when adding 5g/L and 10g/L glucose, the amounts of GFP(per cell)
is extremely lower than lower concentration of glucose. One interesting thing
is that GFP(per cell) of group 1 and group 2 is slightly higher compared to
the control. We guess that low concentration of glucose might play the role of
nutrients and when there are more glucose, they can repressed GFP expression.
Or there may be another mechanism we haven’t understand.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/e/e4/T--SEU-Nanjing-China--
Particle_Standard_Curve_log.png/900px-T--SEU-Nanjing-China--
Particle_Standard_Curve_log.png)](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--
Particle_Standard_Curve_log.png)

[](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Particle_Standard_Curve_log.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 4.** We construct the Particle Standard Curve and use it to convert
OD600 to cells amounts. The right line chart is in the log scale and the left
is in normal.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/5/5a/T--SEU-Nanjing-China--
Fluorescence_Standard_Curve_log.png/900px-T--SEU-Nanjing-China--
Fluorescence_Standard_Curve_log.png)](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--
Fluorescence_Standard_Curve_log.png)

[](/File:T--SEU-Nanjing-China--Fluorescence_Standard_Curve_log.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 5.** We construct Fluorescence Standard Curve and use it to convert
OD600 to GFP fluorescence to the number of GFP molecules.The right line chart
is in the log scale and the left is in normal.

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 722  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K398331 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: -0.6 ± 2.5%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K398331)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

