---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K568004"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K568004)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K568004:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K568004:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K568004)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K568004)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K568004

Designed by: Team TU Munich 2011   Group: iGEM11_TU_Munich   (2011-09-14)

Optogenetical AND-Gate blue light - without first promoter - choose your first
input

This is part of an AND-gate where one can choose the first promoter which
controls the supDtRNA. The logical gate is based on amber stop-codon
suppression via the non-canonical tRNA supD
([BBa_K228001](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K228001)). The blue light sensor
([BBa_K238013](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K238013)) induces the expression
of a mRNA coding for a T7-polymerase with an amber mutation
([BBa_K228000](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K228000)), that can only be
translated by ribosomes if the correct supD tRNA is present.

### Usage and Biology

This part can be used, when one wants an AND-gate where the T7ptag (T7
polymerase with amber stop codon mutation) is under the control of a bluelight
sensor. The part which controls the supDtRNA can be chosen individually and
designed for specific experimental purposes. Blue light leads to dimerisation
of YcgF and binding of the repressor YcgE. The formation of the YcgE-YcgF
complex leads to the unbinding of YcgE from the YcgZ promoter which activates
the transcription of T7ptag (T7 polymerase with the amber stop codon mutation)
if enough supD tRNA is available. SupDtRNA is only produced once a chosen
promoter is cloned at the 5'-site of the part.

The so constructed AND-gate should ensure that expression of T7ptag is only
induced when two signals (one of them blue light) hit the part.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal AgeI site found at 33  

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI site found at 36  

### Functional Parameters

n/a| Optogenetical AND-Gate blue light - without first promoter - choose your
first input

Induction with blue light at 465 nm

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K568004 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 7.0 ± 5.8%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K568004)]

Categories

Parameters

| n/a| Optogenetical AND-Gate blue light - without first promoter - choose
your first input

