---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K875009"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, ecoli, nissle, collections, antimicrobial, collections, probiotics, collections, probiotics, biocontainment] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K875009)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K875009:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K875009:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K875009)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[5 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K875009)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K875009)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K875009

Designed by: Giulia Corso, Sara Samari   Group: iGEM12_Trieste   (2012-09-23)

LL 37 - Cathelicidin

The LL 37 cathelicidin is a human antimicrobial peptide.

The exact mechanism by which AMPs kill microorganisms is still under debate.

The eukaryotic toxin LL 37 was obtained by synthesis with the canonical prefix
and suffix RFC10 compatible and it was optimized for E. coli expression.

  

  

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

## Tec-Chihuahua 2019: Effect of LL 37 in _E. coli_ growth

Team [Tec-Chihuahua](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Tec-Chihuahua) worked on the
characterization of BBa_K875009. We realized that the few characterizations of
LL 37 were all qualitative. This is why our team undertook the task of
characterizing this part in order to report a quantitative absorbance study.
LL 37 has antimicrobial activity against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative
bacteria. _Escherichia coli_ is susceptible to the effects of this peptide,
and since it's one of the most common chassis for recombinant protein
production, the effects that LL 37 may have on the growth of _E. coli_ when
used for its expression were evaluated.  
Expression of toxic proteins may adversely affect the viability of the
chassis. In order to test _E. coli_ as a viable host for LL 37 production, _E.
coli_ BL21 (DE3) cells were transformed with part BBa_K2959000 which is a
composite capable of expressing LL 37 under the regulation of the T7 promoter.
Three flasks with 30 mL of LB broth were inoculated with 3 mL of an overnight
culture of transformed cells. Another flask with 30 mL of LB broth was
inoculated with 3 mL of untransformed cells to use as a control. The four
flasks were incubated at 37°C and 225 rpm until OD600 reached 0.8. The flasks
with transformed cells were treated with different concentrations of IPTG
(0.1, 0.5, and 1 mM) to induce protein production. Then, optical density was
measured every hour for five hours to measure growth. Results were recorded in
the following table and chart.

  

**Table 1.** OD600 of transformed and untransformed _E. coli_ BL21 (DE3)
cultures treated with different concentrations of IPTG. | 0 h | 1 h | 2 h | 3
h | 4 h | 5 h  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Untransformed BL21 (DE3) |  0.859 |  1.238 |  1.511 |  1.636 |  1.709 |  1.752  
Transformed BL21 (DE3), 0.1 mM IPTG  |  0.784 |  1.238 |  1.362 |  1.451 |
1.549 |  1.6  
Transformed BL21 (DE3), 0.5 mM IPTG  |  0.80 |  1.218 |  1.346 |  1.418 |
1.51 |  1.573  
Transformed BL21 (DE3), 1.0 mM IPTG  |  0.81 |  1.197 |  1.297 |  1.351 |
1.427 |  1.481  
  
  

The results obtained show a distinct difference in absorbance, which
correlates to culture growth, between untransformed and transformed _E. coli_.
After 5 hours of incubation, untransformed BL21 (DE3) (blue line) indicated an
OD600 of 1.752. Previous data, compared to transformed BL21 (DE3) with LL37
(yellow line) with the highest induction condition and time (1mM of IPTG and 5
hours), shows an OD600 of 1.481 which denotes a reduction in growth of
approximately **15.5%**. Untransformed cells grew better indicating that **LL
37 production has a negative effect on bacterial growth**. Concentration of
IPTG and absorbance showed an inversely proportional relationship. Higher
concentrations of IPTG must induce a larger production of LL 37 and, due to
its toxicity towards its host, it may have caused this partial inhibition.
Thus, expression of LL 37 reduces bacterial growth; however, no significant
reduction in total growth was perceived. In conclusion, inhibition is not
significant enough to consider expression of LL 37 in _E. coli_ BL21 (DE3)
non-viable.

  

![T--Tec-Chihuahua--GRAFICA.png](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/5/50/T--
Tec-Chihuahua--GRAFICA.png) **Figure 1.** Absorbance curve measured at 600 nm
of transformed and untransformed _E. coli_ BL21 (DE3) cultures treated with
different concentrations of IPTG.

  

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K875009 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 0.8 ± 2.2%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K875009)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/ecoli/nissle  
//collections/antimicrobial  
//collections/probiotics  
//collections/probiotics/biocontainment

Parameters

None|

