---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K554009"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554009)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554009:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554009:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K554009)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[8 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K554009)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K554009)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K554009

Designed by: UNICAMP EMSE Brazil team   Group: iGEM11_Brazil-France
(2011-09-21)

TolC

## TolC

This part was used to [Device 3 testing, Protein Secretion
System](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-
EMSE_Brazil/Results#Device_3_testing.2C_Protein_Secretion_System)

  
TolC is part of the hemolysin secretion system ([Device 3, Protein Secretion
System](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-
EMSE_Brazil/Project#Device_3:_Secretion_system)), very important to export the
proteins produced inside bacteria and that must act in targets outside (such
as [IL-12](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554005) and
[IL-10](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554004)). TolC is a specific outer
membrane protein, which forms a long channel throughout the outer membrane and
the periplasm, largely open towards the extracellular medium.

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BamHI site found at 395  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI site found at 247  

  

### Usage and Biology

**You can see a representation of this device acting in the schema below:**
HlyB gene and product are shown as a symbolic cilinder in orange.

[![UNICAMP EMSE secretion device
schema.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/a/ad/UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_device_schema.jpg/700px-
UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_device_schema.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_device_schema.jpg)

**Representation of device 3, the protein secretion system, in a Jedi bacteria
that contains Device 1 (Adrenaline sensor/IL-12 producer). To export a
protein, the bacteria must have the HlyD, HlyB and TolC proteins and the
target protein must have a signal sequence (HlyA tail). In this case, the
target protein to be secreted is IL-12.**

A more realistic schema of ABC transport system is shown below:

[![UNICAMP EMSE secretion
ABC.jpg](/wiki/images/0/04/UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_ABC.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_ABC.jpg)

## Three-dimensional structure representation

You can find below a tridimensional structure of Crystal structure of the open
state of tolc outer membrane protein from _Escherichia coli_ (retrieved from
PDB [2VDD](http://www.pdb.org/pdb/explore/explore.do?structureId=2vdd) (Bavro
et al. 2008)) solved by crystallography and X-ray diffraction at 3.3 A
resolution. This is a jmol applet, in which you can interactively see the
protein structure of TolC:  

  

## MIT_MAHE 2020

**Usage and Biology**

TolC is a specific outer membrane protein (OMP) and part of the hemolysin
secretion system, very important to export the proteins produced inside
bacteria and that must act in targets outside. TolC (55 kDa) is a
multifunctional E. coli OMP that can serve as an outer membrane component for
several processes such as protein export via a type I pathway and drug export
via RND (resistance, nodulation, division) type systems. This means it is
likely to be connected to members of the MFP/adaptor class, which are found
both in the ABC exporters and in the RND exporters (P. Delepelaire, 2004).

TolC presents a new kind of OMP architecture. It is a trimeric protein,
anchored in the outer membrane by beta-strands and with a very long
periplasmic part made almost uniquely of alpha-helices extending about 100 Å
into the periplasm. The molecule forms a tapering tube that is almost closed
at the periplasmic end and wide open at the outer membrane surface, with
almost no loops at the extracellular surface, as for porin or siderophore
receptors. Its internal diameter of about 30 to 35 Å stays constant throughout
the molecule and delimitates a large water-filled cavity (40,000 Å3) open to
the extracellular medium. This cavity may be the exit tunnel for secreted
proteins and is large enough to accommodate secondary structure elements or
even small folded polypeptide chains (V. Koronakis et al., 2000).

It is studied that TolC operates together with the AcrAB proteins in the inner
membrane to constitute an efflux pump driven by the proton motive force. It is
also somehow involved in the maintenance of outer membrane integrity and the
import of certain colicins and serves as a phage receptor.

In a study to evaluate the tolerance of TolC in an acidic environment using
the acid resistance assay, overnight cultures grown at pH 7 were adjusted to
McFarland 0.5, inoculated into fresh TSB at pH 3, and then incubated at 37°C
with shaking at 180 rpm for 30 min. Cultures designed for adaptation were
cultivated at pH 5 for 16–20 h before challenge with pH 3 followed by
incubation. After the acid challenge, the samples were immediately diluted
with saline (0.85% NaCl) and plated onto TSA. Surviving bacteria were
investigated by determining the number of colony-forming units (CFU) before
the acid challenge and after 24 h of incubation. Percent survival was
calculated by comparing the CFU before and after the challenge. The results
indicated that tolC is required for survival in extremely acidic environments,
regardless of whether it has been adapted to mild acid conditions. Based on
their RT-PCR results, acid exposed tolC mutant cells showed less protection
against oxidative stress, indicating that TolC is involved in coping with
excess protons (Jen-Jie Lee et al., 2016).

[![TolCMITMAHE.png](/wiki/images/0/03/TolCMITMAHE.png)](/File:TolCMITMAHE.png)

### References

Barbara D. Tzschaschel, Carlos A. Guzmán,, Kenneth N. Timmis and Victor de
Lorenzo. An Escherichia coli hemolysin transport system-based vector for the
export of polypeptides: Export of shiga-like toxin IIeB subunit by Salmonella
typhimurium aroA. Nature Biotechnology 14, 765 - 769 (1996) [Article
link](http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v14/n6/abs/nbt0696-765.html)

P. Delepelaire. Type I secretion in Gram-negative bacteria. Biochimia et
Biophysica Actca 1694, 149-161 (2004) [Link to
PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15546664)

Ivaylo Gentschev, Guido Dietrich and Werner Goebel. The E. coli α-hemolysin
secretion system and its use in vaccine development. Trends in Microbiology
10, 39-45 (2002) [Link to PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11755084)

Bavro, V.N., Pietras, Z., Furnham, N., Perez-Cano, L., Fernandez-Recio, J.,
Pei, X.Y., Truer, R., Misra, R., Luisi, B.Assembly and channel opening in a
bacterial drug efflux machine.Journal: (2008) Mol.Cell 30: 114 [Link to
PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=PubMed&dopt=Abstract&list_uids=18406332)

Koronakis, V., Sharff, A., Koronakis, E., Luisi, B., & Hughes, C. (2000).
Crystal structure of the bacterial membrane protein TolC central to multidrug
efflux and protein export. Nature, 405(6789), 914–919.
<https://doi.org/10.1038/35016007>

Lee, J. J., Wu, Y. C., Kuo, C. J., Hsuan, S. L., & Chen, T. H. (2016). TolC is
important for bacterial survival and oxidative stress response in Salmonella
enterica serovar Choleraesuis in an acidic environment. Veterinary
microbiology, 193, 42–48. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vetmic.2016.08.006>

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K554009)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

