---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K763001"
author: Reporter
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K763001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K763001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K763001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K763001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K763001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)

Reporter

# Part:BBa_K763001

Designed by: Pedro Luis Dorado Morales   Group: iGEM12_Valencia_Biocampus
(2012-09-07)

pGroE + Gene encoding AsRed2

  
This construction is made up of two elements:

1\. The transcription factor-binding site inside the promoter

2\. the coding sequence, which contains a synthetic fluorescent (red) protein.
Our construction uses the well-known high chaperon expression when the
bacterium is suffering from heat shock [1]. We have taken the promoter
sequence of groE, one of these proteins highly produced when heat shock [2].
When is the protein synthesized? In order to obtain the red fluorescent
protein a condition has to be met. High temperatures for _E. coli_ must be
reached, like for example from 42ºC degrees. We focused on 44ºC because here
we got the best results.

[![Are you hot
biobricks.png](/wiki/images/thumb/5/57/Are_you_hot_biobricks.png/400px-
Are_you_hot_biobricks.png)](/File:Are_you_hot_biobricks.png)

The molecular mechanism underlying this phenomenon is as follows: high
temperatures are sometimes harmful for microorganisms, so they have adapted
successfully for such a strong condition by synthesizing some proteins, called
HSP (Heat Shock Proteins), that help in protein folding. Heat-shock response
is mediated by the sigma32 factor [3]. This alternative sigma factor allows
the RNA polymerase to bind to some consensus promoter sequence. groE has this
sequence in its promoter [4]. That is because this gene encodes a chaperon
protein, GroE. Chaperone proteins are a group of proteins present in all
cells; many of them are heat shock proteins, whose function is to assist the
folding of other proteins in the newly formed protein synthesis.

In the case of GroE, it processes a nonnative polypeptide in a cycle
consisting of three steps. First, the polypeptide substrate is captured by
GroEL. Upon binding of the co-chaperone GroES and ATP, the substrate is then
discharged into a unique microenvironment inside of the chaperone, which
promotes proper folding. After hydrolysis of ATP, the polypeptide is released
into solution. Moreover, GroE may actively increase the folding efficiency,
e.g. by unfolding of misfolded protein molecules. This chaperon has an
important role in heat shock process too, helping other proteins not to
denature.

How did we deal with this construction? We were able to activate the promoter
after a heat shock, like keeping the culture at 44ºC during 5 min. However,
since we wanted a very good modeling for this construction, we developed a lot
of experiments with different temperatures, different times of incubation, as
well as gradating the temperature ranging from 37ºC to 46ºC.

  

### Characterization

  
To test the heat-sensitive construction, an overnight culture of our _E.coli_
strain carrying the AsRed2 gene under the control of groE promoter was set up
at 25 ºC. After that, OD was adjusted to 0.15 and several aliquots were
transferred to fluorimetry cuvettes. Heat shock was carried out at different
temperatures in a water bath. Then, the cuvettes were maintained at room
temperature and OD and fluorescence intensity were measured at different time
points.

As shown in the graphs below, we found a correlation between the temperature
at which heat shock was carried out and the level of expression of the
fluorescent protein. Higher fluorescence intensity was obtained when higher
temperatures (ranging from 40 to 44 ºC) were applied (check the [**molecular
mechanism
details**](http://2012.igem.org/Team:Valencia_Biocampus/Molecular#TEMPERATURE-
INDUCED_PROMOTER)). According to our results, it seems that protein expression
cannot keep increasing at temperatures higher than 44 ºC, probably due to
lethality effects.

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/7/7a/HS_60_biobricks.png)  
---  
**Figure 7.** Fluorescence intensity (FI) normalized by the optical density
(OD) of cultures that  
were subjected to a 10-min heat-shock at different temperatures. Measures were
taken 60 min  
after the shock.  
  
  
![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/2/20/HS_120_biobricks.png)  
**Figure 8.** Fluorescence intensity (FI) normalized by the optical density
(OD) of cultures that  
were subjected to a 10-min heat-shock at different temperatures. Measures were
taken 120 min  
after the shock.  
  
  
  
2019 GDSYZX:

We run the enzyme digestion verification and sequence test of plasmid GroE-
AsRed2, then test the fluorescence intensity under different heat-induce time.
(set gradient between 0 and 30 minutes.)

We place the shaken fugus solution into 18℃,28℃,37℃, 42℃, and 55℃ pots for 10
minutes and cultivate the solution in static under room temperature. We test
the OD600 value and Florence intensity 0 min, 30 min, 60 min, 90min,
120min,150min, 180min after the heat shock transformation.

(measure condition: wavelength of excited light: 576nm, wavelength of emitting
light: 592nm, E.coli competent :DH5α, chloramphenicol LB culture medium ,
Endonuclease XbaI and SpeI: enzyme test of GroE-AsRed2 plasmid.)

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/1/10/T--GDSYZX--K763001.jpg)  
---  
**Figure 1.** As shown, the result indicates that the fluorescence intensity
is the highest under 55 ℃ and that the fluorescence intensity all tends to
reach their maximum at about 125 minutes after heat shock transformation under
different temperature.  
  
  
  
  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal NgoMIV site found at 507  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K763001 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 1.6 ± 6.9%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K763001)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

