---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K515100"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,function, biosynthesis] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K515100)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K515100:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K515100:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K515100)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K515100)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K515100

Designed by: Atipat Patharagulpong   Group: iGEM11_Imperial_College_London
(2011-09-06)

IAA biosynthetic genes under control of the Pveg2 promoter

  
**Sequence and Features**

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 547  
Illegal BamHI site found at 1492  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal NgoMIV site found at 254  
Illegal NgoMIV site found at 2835  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

### Functional Parameters

chassis| E. coli DH5α| control| K515010| device_type| pathway| input_s|
tryptophan| origin| P. savastanoi| output| indole-3-acetic acid | resistance|
chloramphenicol

  

**This BioBrick has been sequence verified.**

## Background

The IAM pathway is a two step pathway which generates indole-3-acetic acid
(IAA), also known as auxin, from the precursor tryptophan. IAA tryptophan
monooxygenase (IaaM) [BBa_K515000](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K515000),
catalyses the oxidative carboxylation of L-tryptophan to indole-3-acetamide
which is hydrolyzed to indole-3-acetic acid and ammonia by indoleacetamide
hydrolase (IaaH) [BBa_K515001](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K515001). There
are several different pathways that produce indole-3-acetic acid [1]. IaaM and
IaaH originate from _P. savastanoi_ and have been expressed in _E. coli_
previously, and shown to secrete auxin into the cell supernatant [2].

## Experimental Data

### Salkowski Assay
[![](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/5/58/ICL_ProtocolIconDark.png)](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Imperial_College_London/Protocols_Auxin)

|

![](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/a/ad/ICL_Latest.standard.curve.png)

_Figure 2: Standard curve of Salkowski assay made with synthetic IAA in LB_

|

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/5/58/ICL_salkowski_cuvettes.JPG)

_Figure 3: Cuvettes used to measure OD for the standard curve. As IAA
concentration increases, the solution turns red._  
  
---|---  
  
The Salkowski assay is a colourimetric assay that detects IAA with high
specificity among other indoles. There are many different types of Salkowski
reagents which work at different concentration ranges of IAA and with varying
specificity. They all vary slightly in composition and measurement method. We
used the most specific reagent according to a paper which works at a
concentration range of 0-260 µM. Modelling of the IAA producing construct
informed us that IAA production would be within this range. This standard
assay is the simplest way to determine whether there is IAA present in
solution. First, we created a standard curve with increasing IAA concentration
in LB broth using synthetic IAA (Figure 1&2). This was used to determine IAA
concentration from OD measurements of IAA-producing _E. coli_ DH5α.

![](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/c/c4/ICL_Auxinproductionsalkowski.png)

_Figure 4: Results from trial 1 of Salkowski assay with cell filtrate of IAA-
producing_ E. coli _DH5α. Filtered through a 0.2 µm pore filter_

|

![](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/9/92/Colour_change.JPG)

_Figure 5: Visual results correlating with OD measurements. The eppendorf on
the right contains IAA producing_ E. coli _DH5α and the eppendorf on the left
contains control_ E. coli _DH5α._  
  
---|---  
  
We found that our IAA producing _E. coli_ were producing approximately 55 µM
IAA. From modelling, we have determined that our construct would be able to
produce 72.25 μM IAA, which shows that we were in the correct order of
magnitude. _E. coli_ are known to naturally express IAA, although the pathway
is uncharacterised, which is why all of our controls showed moderate levels of
IAA production[3]. However, cells containing the Auxin Xpress construct have
repeatedly shown to produce almost twice as much IAA.

IAA is known to degrade quite rapidly so we tested the effect of light
exposure on IAA detection by Salkowski. Interestingly, from testing the
Salkowski assay on synthetic IAA in LB left overnight in dark versus light
suggests that light exposure does lead to IAA degradation (Figure 6).

  

![](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/d/d9/ICL_Light_effect.jpg)

_Figure 6: Testing the effect of light exposure on synthetic IAA stability.
The cuvette on the left shows the colour change at point zero. The three
middle cuvettes were left in the dark overnight and the three on the right
were left exposed to light, after which Salkowski reagent was added to all
samples to observe colour change._

![](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/0/07/ICL_IAAproductionLBtryptone.png)

_Figure 7: Salkowski assay performed on IAA producing_ E. coli _and control_
E. coli _incubated for 20 hours in different media. All samples were incubated
in the dark._

  

Due to the results of the light exposure test, all future cultures were
incubated in the dark. We did another assay on _E. coli_ DH5α cultures
expressing the auxin construct to compare IAA production when incubated in two
different media, LB and tryptone broth (Figure 7). Surprisingly, the results
suggest that IAA production was optimal in LB, although the OD at 600 nm of
cultures grown in tryptone broth (very nutrient rich) was much higher. We
cannot draw a conclusion from this data, however it seems that the IAA
producing pathway endogenous to _E. coli_ is much more complicated than
anticipated. We may postulate that IAA is not produced when growth conditions
are very favourable and cell density is high.

  

### HPLC

  

Since the BL21 strain of _E. coli_ was saturating the Salkowski reagent we
looked for alternative quantification methods to measure the amount of IAA
being produced by BL21 cells containing the Auxin Xpress construct. The
extraction method we used resulted in a large loss in IAA from the cell
filtrate and no peaks were detected by HPLC, therefore we ran filtered cell
supernatant directly through the column and the peak characteristic to IAA at
227 nm was visible.

From the positive control, only one peak at 227 nm showed up at about 15 mins
so we knew that this corresponded to IAA and looked for the same peak in our
samples between 15 and 16 minutes.

Considerably smaller IAA peaks were present in the sample of interest and
negative control and a difference in magnitude between the two could not be
determined **(Figure 8)**. Therefore we needed an even more sensitive approach
to accurately determine how much IAA our engineered bacteria were producing.

  

![](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/2/22/ICL_HPLC.png)

_Figure 8: HPLC peak corresponding to IAA. Positive control is 50 μM IAA in
acetonitrile. Auxin Xpress is filtered supernatant of _E. coli_ BL21
transformed with the Auxin Xpress construct. Negative control is filtered
supernatant of _E. coli_ BL21 transformed with a vector containing only a
promoter and antibiotic resistance. _

.

### LCMS

  

Finally we did liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LCMS) to confirm that
IAA was present in our sample. This highly quantitative method combines HPLC
and mass spectrometry allowing detection of nano-molar concentrations. Dr
Colin Turnbull and his team kindly ran our samples for us. _E. coli_ strain
BL21 were used to maximise IAA output.

The characteristic IAA peak detected by LCMS confirms that IAA is being
produced by cells with the Auxin Xpress construct **(Figure 9)**.
Unfortunately the extraction method resulted in a high loss of IAA in the
sample (post extraction concentrations were nearly 12 fold lower than pre-
extraction). Although the relative levels of IAA are still informative, we
hope to optimise the extraction in the future to improve the yield of IAA.

  
  

![](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/3/36/ICL_LCMS_rawgtraph.png)

_Figure 9: Peaks produced from LCMS, the peak area of the MRM transition
176-130 was used to quantify IAA. The bottom window shows the peak for
authentic IAA run in the same batch compared to the test sample extracted from
our engineered bacteria. The peak around four and a half minutes corresponds
to another unkown metabolite. The peak at about six and a half minutes
corresponds to IAA.

_

## References

[1] Spaepen S. et al. (2007) Indole-3-acetic acid in microbial and
microorganism-plant signaling. _Federation of European Microbiological
Societies Microbiology Reviews_ **31:** 425–448.

[2] Palm CJ et al. (1989) Cotranscription of genes encoding indoleacetic acid
production in _Pseudomonas syringae subsp. savastanoi_. _Journal of
Bacteriology_ **171(2):** 1002-1009.

[3] Ball, E(1938) Heteroauxin and the growth of _Escherichia coli _. _Journal
of Bacteriology_ **36(5):**. 559-565.

  

## Contribution: NUDT_CHINA 2015

Author: Xinyuan Qiu

Summary: We built two new parts based on this part to extend its function.

This part is the only one available with IAAM and IAAH , but unfortunately, we
noticed that neither of the CDS of those two enzyme were submitted to the
registry (they were only registered as BBa_K515000 and K515001). Thus, several
improvements were made based on the part K515100 to provide an available
version of IAAM and IAAH.

### Two pairs of enzymes that can PCR-prep the CDS of IaaM and IaaH

For IAAM

F-Prime: 5’- GGAATTCGCGGCCGCTTCTAGAGATGTTTGGACCGG-3’

R-Prime: 5’- GCGGCGGACTAGTCTTATTAGTCCCCCAGCG -3’

  
For IAAH

F-Prime: 5’- GGAATTCGCGGCCGCTTCTAGAGATGCGCGAAATG -3’

R-Prime: 5’- GCGGGCGGCGGACTAGTCTTATTAGCCTTTTAACAC -3’

### Two new bio-bricks were designed based on this part using the primers
above

See BBa_K1789000 and BBa_K1789001

Both of those parts were sent to the registry.

## Contribution: Universität Potsdam 2017

Author: Felix Lohrke

Summary: We upgraded this part by adding MS2 and PP7 RNA-binding-proteins.

We modified this part so that it is possible to synthesize the IAA-enzymes
with RBP`s to be able to bind to specific aptamers.  
  
For more information see [
BBa_K2483000](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K2483000) The part was sent to
iGEM-HQ.

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/7/7a/T--Austin_Utexas--
high_significant_burden.png)

**Burden Value: 33.9 ± 15.9%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This part exhibited a significant burden. Users should be
aware that BioBricks with a burden of >20-30% may be susceptible to mutating
to become less functional or nonfunctional as an evolutionary consequence of
this fitness cost. This risk increases as they used for more bacterial cell
divisions or in larger cultures. Users should be especially careful when
combining multiple burdensome parts, as plasmids with a total burden of >40%
are expected to mutate so quickly that they become unclonable. Refer to any
one of the [BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods and other conclusions from a large-scale
measurement project conducted by the [2019 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas)

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K515100)]

Categories

//function/biosynthesis

Parameters

chassis| E. coli DH5α| control| K515010| device_type| pathway| input_s|
tryptophan| origin| P. savastanoi| output| indole-3-acetic acid | resistance|
chloramphenicol

