---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K774001"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,promoter] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K774001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[2 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K774001)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K774001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

M-B

# Part:BBa_K774001

Designed by: NRP-UEA-Norwich   Group: iGEM12_NRP_UEA-Norwich   (2012-06-25)

## Contents

  * 1 PyeaR + CArG nitric oxide, nitrate & nitrite-sensing hybrid 'Mammalian-Bacterial' promoter
    * 1.1 NRP-UEA-Norwich 2012
    * 1.2 Growth Studies
      * 1.2.1 A comparison between the growth of _E.coli_ cells, before and after transformation with the bacterial-mammalian promoter, as well as the mammalian-bacterial promoter (BBa_K774001) and PyeaR + GFP composite (BBa_K381001))
    * 1.3 Sequencing
      * 1.3.1 Functional Parameters
    * 1.4 Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas
    * 1.5 References

# PyeaR + CArG nitric oxide, nitrate & nitrite-sensing hybrid 'Mammalian-
Bacterial' promoter

## NRP-UEA-Norwich 2012

[![NRPMB.png](/wiki/images/thumb/f/f7/NRPMB.png/300px-
NRPMB.png)](/File:NRPMB.png)

The team (NRPUEA 2012) decided to develop the PyeaR BioBrick (BBa_K216005)
further by ligating it to its mammalian counterpart: CArG promoter sequence
E9-ns2 (Scott, S.D. et al.2002). To provide additional restriction enzyme
sites that may become useful during later cloning steps, BamHI, HindIII and
NdeI were added between the 2 promoters. The genes were synthesised in two
orientations, Bacterial-Mammalian (BBa_K774000) and Mammalian-Bacterial
(BBa_K774001) as initially we were not sure what effect gene order would have
on gene activity. The aim of this development was to increase the flexibility
of the PyeaR promoter so that it could be used in both mammalian and bacterial
systems. This is something that we thought was important as sensing nitric
oxide in the human body has a wide range of therapeutic applications (please
see the future applications section on our wiki).

The characterisation of our Bacterial-Mammalian BioBrick was carried out by
performing **Growth studies** of the PyeaR BioBrick (BBa_K381001), the
Mammalian-Bacterial (M-B) BioBrick (BBa_K774001), and the Bacterial-Mammalian
(B-M) BioBrick (BBa_K774000). Further characterisation of these BioBricks was
carried out by ligating the promoters to fluorescent reporters and studying
them in both mammalian and bacterial cells. Please see the experience page for
these results.  
  

## Growth Studies

### A comparison between the growth of _E.coli_ cells, before and after
transformation with the bacterial-mammalian promoter, as well as the
mammalian-bacterial promoter (BBa_K774001) and PyeaR + GFP composite
(BBa_K381001))

The study involved testing the affects of transforming _E.coli_ with different
promoters on its growth over time. The promoters _E.coli_ was transformed with
were PyeaR, M-B and B-M. These promoters all react to nitrogenous species. By
running these growth studies together, we were able to obtain a direct
comparison between all three of these promoters on the growth of _E.coli_. To
see if the presence of novel promoters caused any significant changes in
growth, the study was run alongside _E.coli_ cells which had not been
transformed with anything. For the rest of this brief report, untransformed
cells will be referred to as Alpha cells and the other _E.coli_ cells which
have been transformed will be referred to as the promoter with which they were
transformed with.

The _E.coli_ cells used in all studies are Alpha select gold standard cells
from Bioline, which have a hight transformation frequency.

To begin, a colony was inoculated into 5ml of LB media overnight, the cells
spun down the following morning and diluted with fresh LB until an OD reading
at 600nm of 0.2 ± 0.01 was obtained. Three repeats were made of each sample.

The study lasted for 12 hours. An OD reading at 600nm was taken once an hour.
Between the hour, the cuvettes were put into a 37ᵒC incubator to encourage
growth and to standardise measurements across all of the growth studies. To
calculate the number of cells in each sample, a calibration curve was set up.
This involved using cultures of the _E.coli_ cells which had not been
transformed. The _E.coli_ cells were diluted with different volumes of LB and
OD readings were taken at the same time as plating on Agar plates. After a day
of growth, the numbers on these plates were counted and recorded. The CFU/ml
was calculated. When the OD readings (x axis) and the CFU/ml (y axis) readings
were plotted, the equation of the line of best fit, gives a conversion for the
absorbance readings. This allowed us to measure the growth. This is
demonstrated in figure 1.

[![Calibration
curve.png](/wiki/images/0/0c/Calibration_curve.png)](/File:Calibration_curve.png)  
  
_**Figure 1.** Calibration curve to calculate the conversion factor between OD
reading at 600nm and the number of colony forming units growing per ml
(CFU/ml)_

We found that there was a significant difference between Alpha cells and PyeaR
cells. Initially, Alpha cells had a greater growth rate, but after the third
hour into the study, the growth rate of PyeaR was faster than that of Alpha
cells. The overall growth rate of PyeaR cells was significantly faster that
Alpha cells (Levenes Test, F = 1.009 p = 0.372; T Test, t = 4.196, df = 4, p =
0.014).

[![800px-A + P.png](/wiki/images/8/8d/800px-A_%2B_P.png)](/File:800px-
A_%2B_P.png)

  
  

_**Figure 2.** Growth of PyeaR transformed E.coli cells relative to Alpha
cells (untransformed cells)._ Error bars show the standard deviation between
the three repeats. For clarity reasons, lines of best fit are not shown The
growth pattern and rate of _E.coli_ cells with or without transformation with
**B-M and M-B show little difference**. Any differences in growth rate were
not significant. There was lots of overlap. As previously described, there was
a significant difference between the growth rate of PyeaR and Alpha cells.
There was also a significant difference between M-B/B-M and PyeaR cells. The
statistical results can be seen in Table 1.  
  
[![Alpha BM MB.png](/wiki/images/9/9d/Alpha_BM_MB.png)](/File:Alpha_BM_MB.png)  
  
  
  
_**Figure 3.** Growth over 12 hours of Alpha, M-B and B-M. Error bars and
lines of best fit are not shown for clarity reasons._

  
_**Table 1.** ANOVA readings of statistical differences between Alpha (1)
PyeaR (2), MB (3) and BM (4)._
[![Table.png](/wiki/images/a/a5/Table.png)](/File:Table.png)

From all the above graphs, it can be seen that with the starting concentration
of cells as high as they are, the cultures are in exponential stage and do not
undergo lag phase. A further growth study will be carried out on purely the
lag phase with lower starting concentrations. As the starting absorbances here
are approximately 0.2 at a wavelength of 600nm, the lag phase study will
involve starting absorbances of 0.04 and lower.

## Sequencing

[![MB sequence.png](/wiki/images/a/ad/MB_sequence.png)](/File:MB_sequence.png)  
  
[![MB sequence
2.png](/wiki/images/c/c1/MB_sequence_2.png)](/File:MB_sequence_2.png)

**BLAST Analysis**  
To review the success of the sequencing of the BioBrick sample, the predicted
DNA sequence was compared to the sequence data using a Pairwise BLAST analysis
( **[bl2seq](http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi)** ). The predicted DNA
sequence was entered as the Query and the data from the sequencing analysis
was entered as the Subject. The summary information at the top of the image
identifies how many bases are identical between the two sequences. Lines
joining the two sets of sequences indicate identical bases, and the absence of
a line indicates a difference between the two sequences.

For this sample, the sequencing data is exactly as predicted.

  
[![MB BLAST.png](/wiki/images/thumb/c/ce/MB_BLAST.png/800px-
MB_BLAST.png)](/File:MB_BLAST.png)

  

### Functional Parameters

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/4/43/T--Austin_Utexas--
Low_significant_burden.png)

**Burden Value: 5.0 ± 2.5%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This part exhibited a significant burden. Users should be
aware that BioBricks with a burden of >20-30% may be susceptible to mutating
to become less functional or nonfunctional as an evolutionary consequence of
this fitness cost. This risk increases as they used for more bacterial cell
divisions or in larger cultures. Users should be especially careful when
combining multiple burdensome parts, as plasmids with a total burden of >40%
are expected to mutate so quickly that they become unclonable. Refer to any
one of the [BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods and other conclusions from a large-scale
measurement project conducted by the [2019 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas)

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

## References

Scott, S.D., Joiner, M.C. & Marples, B., 2002. Optimizing radiation-responsive
gene promoters for radiogenetic cancer therapy. Gene therapy, 9(20),
p.1396-402. Available at: <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12365005>
[Accessed June 24, 2012].

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K774001)]

Categories

//promoter

Parameters

None|

