---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K733009"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K733009)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K733009:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K733009:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K733009)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K733009)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K733009

Designed by: WANG, Yuqi   Group: iGEM12_HKUST_Hong_Kong   (2012-09-16)

_Ptms_ +BBa_E0240: _Ptms_ +RBS+GFP+Double

_Ptms_ is a promoter which proves to be functional in both _E. coli_ and _B.
subtilis_. R.P.U standard is advocated by part registry to represent the
efficiency of a constitutive promoter.(Kelly et al., 2009) We intend to
characterize promoter _Ptms_ in _E. coli_. Using _E. coli_ as our initial
characterization chassis may prove to be more valuable for most of iGEM
participants, because _E. coli_ is frequently used by iGEM participants.

Link to our _Ptms_ promoter:
[BBa_K733001](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K733001)

  

## **Characterization**

**Background Information** [Link to our Regulation and Control
Module](http://2012.igem.org/Team:HKUST-
Hong_Kong/Module/Regulation_and_control)

[![Promoter characterization
1.JPG](/wiki/images/c/c3/Promoter_characterization_1.JPG)](/File:Promoter_characterization_1.JPG)

The key reason for using this low efficiency constitutive promoter in our
construct is to enable our bacteria to express a low level of antitoxin so
that the bacterial cell can only tolerate a certain amount of toxin. As the
expression of BMP2 is tightly linked to the toxin, its expression can be
regulated accordingly.

  
**Objective**

Our objective in characterizing this promoter is to test whether Ptms works in
_E. coli_ DH10B strain and determine its relative promoter unit (RPU) compared
to the standard constitutive promoter (a promoter whose activity is
arbitrarily valued at 1.0 by parts.igem.org).

  
**Intended Result**

1\. Ptms should work in _E. coli_. This is supported by previous research
(Moran et al., 1982). 2\. The activity of _Ptms_ should be relatively low.

**Method**

Instead of using the absolute promoter activity as the final result, our
characterization was based on obtaining the in vivo activity of this
constitutive promoter. By adopting this method, we are able to eliminate
errors caused by different experimental conditions and give a more convincing
result. By linking the promoter with GFP (BBa_E0240), the promoter activity
was represented by the GFP synthesis rate which can be easily measured. _E.
coli_ carrying the right construct was then cultured to log phase. At a time
point around the mid-log phase, the GFP intensity and OD595 values were
measured to obtain the Relative Promoter Units (RPU)

  
**Characterization Procedure**

1.Constructing BBa_K733009-pSB3K3 (Ptms-BBa_E0240-pSB3K3); Transforming
BBa_I20260-pSB3K3 (Standard Constitutive Promoter/Reference Promoter) from the
2012 Distribution Kit

2\. Preparing supplemented M9 medium (see below);

3.Culturing _E. coli_ DH10B strain carrying BBa_K733009-pSB3K3 and _E. coli_
carrying BBa_I20260-pSB3K3 in supplemented M9 medium and measuring the
respective growth curve;

4\. Measuring the GFP intensity and OD595 values every 15 minutes after the
above mentioned _E. coli_ strains are cultured to mid-log phase;

5\. Calculating the Relative Promoter Units (RPU) using the obtained data;

6\. Compiling the results.

  
**Data Processing** 1\. After _E. coli_ carrying the right construct was grown
to mid-log phase, GFP intensity and OD595 were measured every 15 minutes (up
to 60min);

2\. For GFP intensity, curve reflecting GFP expression change was plotted; for
OD595, average values were taken;

3\. GFP synthesis rate was then obtained by calculating the slope of the above
mentioned curve;

4\. Absolute promoter activity of _Ptms_ and I20260 were calculated by
dividing the corresponding GFP synthesis rate over the average OD595 value;

5\. Averaged absolute promoter activity was then obtained by averaging the
respective sets of absolute promoter activity values;

6\. Finally, R.P.U was calculated by dividing the averaged _Ptms_ absolute
promoter activity over the averaged I20260 absolute promoter activity.

  

**Result**

1\. Suggested by the GFP expression curve we plotted, _Ptms_ functions in
_E.coli_ DH10B strain.

[![PTms GFP.jpg](/wiki/images/d/d9/PTms_GFP.jpg)](/File:PTms_GFP.jpg)

_* Above: GFP expression curve for one set of data_

2\. The RPU of _Ptms_ obtained was 0.046497. This shows that _Ptms_ has a very
low promoter efficiency in _E.coli_ DH10B strain.

[![PTms
Promoter.jpg](/wiki/images/a/ae/PTms_Promoter.jpg)](/File:PTms_Promoter.jpg)

  
**Discussion**

Compared to I20260, it seems that _E. coli_ carrying Ptms-GFP has a rather low
GFP expression. This may cause some difficulty in deciding whether _Ptms_
functions in _E. coli_ or not. However, referring to the curve (for GFP
Intensity), the GFP expression for _Ptms_ increased gradually with respect to
time. This suggests that Ptms functions in _E. coli_ DH10B strain, although
with a low efficiency. A possible reason for its low efficiency could be that
_Ptms_ was originally from _B. subtilis_ and was suggested to be functional in
_E. coli_. Due to time constraints, we were unable to characterize the
promoter in _B. subtilis_ , and we still hope that we can address this in the
future.

**Reference**

Moran, C., Lang, N., LeGrice, S., Lee, G., Stephens, M., Sonenshein, A., et
al. (1982). Nucleotide sequences that signal the initiation of transcription
and translation in Bacillus subtilis.. _Molecular and General Genetics MGG_
,186, 339-346.

**Supplemented M9 Medium Composition**

1\. 5X M9 Salt Composition (1L)

(1) 64g Na2HPO4﹒

(2) 15g KH2PO4

(3) 2.5g NaCl

(4) 5.0g NH4CL

2\. Minimal 1X M9 medium (1L)

(1) 200ml of 5X M9 Salt

(2) 2ml of 1M MgSO4

(3) 100μl of 1M CaCl2

(4) 5ml of 40% glycerol

3\. Supplement (for the final medium)

(1) 1mM thiamine hydrochloride

(2) 0.2% casamino acids

  

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 736  

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K733009 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 0.0 ± 2.6%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

  

## Reference

Kelly J, Rubin A, Davis J, Ajo-Franklin C, Cumbers J, Czar M, de Mora K,
Glieberman A, Monie D, Endy D: **Measuring the activity of BioBrick promoters
using an in vivo reference standard.** _Journal of Biological Engineering_
2009, 3:4.

Moran, C., Lang, N., LeGrice, S., Lee, G., Stephens, M., Sonenshein, A., et
al. (1982). Nucleotide sequences that signal the initiation of transcription
and translation in _Bacillus subtilis_.. _Molecular and General Genetics
MGG,186,_ 339-346.

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K733009)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

