---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K934012"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K934012)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K934012:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K934012:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K934012)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K934012)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K934012

Designed by: Toshiki Hashimoto   Group: iGEM12_Tokyo_Tech   (2012-09-17)

Plas-LuxI

We constructed this part by combining
[BBa_K649000](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K649000) and
[BBa_K081008](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K081008). This part generates
LuxI enzyme in the presence of LasR-3OC12HSL complex.

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/83/Plas-LuxI_result.png/500px-Plas-
LuxI_result.png)](/File:Plas-LuxI_result.png)

[](/File:Plas-LuxI_result.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 1 This work was done by Mai Miura, Xinran Tao and Shiyue Liu.

To characterize Plas-LuxI (BBa_K934012), we introduced Plas-LuxI on pSB3K3
with Ptrc-LasR on pSB6A1 to _E.coli_ as “3OC12HSL dependent 3OC6HSL producer
cell”. In this _E.coli_ , constitutively expressed LasR activates the
expression of LuxI in the presence of 3OC12HSL. We then introduced Ptet-LuxR
([BBa_S03119](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_S03119)) and Plux-GFP
([BBa_K395100](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K395100)) to _E.coli_ as a “Lux
reporter cell”.

The supernatants of the cultures of Plas-LuxI cell were used as the inducer in
the reporter assay.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/c/cd/Lux_reporter_assay.png/500px-
Lux_reporter_assay.png)](/File:Lux_reporter_assay.png)

[](/File:Lux_reporter_assay.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 2

Fig. 1 shows fluorescence intensities by Lux reporter cells dependent on
different conditions. Only when the supernatant of condition F was used, the
fluorescence intensity of the Lux reporter cell increased while the
supernatants of other three conditions did not affect. Comparing the results
of the condition E and F, it can be said that with the induction of 3OC12HSL
to Plas-LuxI, the fluorescence intensity of the Lux reporter cell increased by
112-folds. This result indicates that Plas-LuxI cell produced 3OC6HSL in
response to 3OC12HSL induction by the function of Plas-LuxI (BBa_K934012).
From this experiment, we confirmed that a improved part Plas-LuxI
(BBa_K934012) worked accurately.

We improved a previous part Plas-LuxI
([BBa_K266000](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K266000:Experience#User_Reviews))

**By using Plas-LuxI (BBa_K934012), we also accomplished a positive feedback
system with our new part Plux-LasI
([BBa_K934022](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K934022)).**

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/6/65/Time-dependent_change_assay.png/800px-Time-
dependent_change_assay.png)](/File:Time-dependent_change_assay.png)

[](/File:Time-dependent_change_assay.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 3 This work was done by Mai Miura.

As compared red solid line with blue dotted line in the condition i (both
Plux-LasI cell and Plas-LuxI cell coexist), the Fig. 3 shows that the
fluorescence intensity of Las reporter increases at first (0-1h), and then
that of Lux reporter starts to increase (1-2h). This result indicates that the
3OC12HSL production in Plux-LasI cell was activated by initially added
3OC6HSL, whereas the 3OC6HSL production in Plas-LuxI cell was not activated
till 3OC12HSL production in Plux-LasI cell reached sufficient level. This
behavior strongly suggests the appearance of the positive feedback.

For more information, see [our work in Tokyo_Tech 2012
wiki](http://2012.igem.org/Team:Tokyo_Tech/Project).

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 749  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K934012)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

