---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K823001"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, bsubtilis, promoter, rnap, prokaryote, subtilis, sigmaa] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K823001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[4 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K823001)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K823001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K823001

Designed by: Korinna Kraft   Group: iGEM12_LMU-Munich   (2012-07-16)

P _liaI_ promoter of _Bacillus subtilis_

P _liaI_ is the promoter of the _liaHI_ operon of _B. subtilis_. It has a very
low basal activity and is inducible by bacitracin in a concentration dependant
manner with a dynamic range over 100-fold.

This fragment does not contain a ribosome binding site.

### Usage and Biology

P _liaI_ is an inducible promoter from _B. subtilis_ which is strongly induced
by sublethal amounts of antibiotics that interfere with integrity and
biosynthesis of the cell wall [Mascher et. al.,
2004](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15273097)). In the presence of a
suitable stimulus, the two-component system LiaRS is activated. The activated
response regulator LiaR binds to the operator of the promoter and induces the
transcription of the _lia_ locus. When the promoter is turned on the two
proteins encoded by the _liaHI_ operon are expressed [(Jordan _et al._ ,
2006)](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=Journal%20of%20Bacteriology%2C%20188%20%2814%29%3A%205153%E2%80%935166:).
This promoter is evaluated with the reporters _lux_ as well as _lacZ_. For
more details visit the [Data](http://2012.igem.org/Team:LMU-
Munich/Data/Inducible) page of the LMU-Munich Team 2012 or get an overview of
our whole project [**Bead** zillus](http://2012.igem.org/Team:LMU-Munich).

  
  

### Evaluation

This part was also evaluated in the publication [The _Bacillus_ BioBrick Box:
generation and evaluation of essential genetic building blocks for
standardized work with _Bacillus
subtilis_](http://www.jbioleng.org/content/7/1/29) by Radeck _et al._.

### Luminescence measurements

The bacitracin-inducible promoter **P _liaI_** was evaluated in the reporter
vector [pSB _Bs_ 3C- _luxABCDE_](/Part:BBa_K823025 "Part:BBa K823025") which
contains the _lux_ operon. The promoter activity leads to gene expression and
to the production of the protein luciferase. The luminescence produced by this
protein can be measured with suitable microtiter plate reader as shown in
**Fig.1**.

|

[![Plate reader induzierbar
promotor.png](/wiki/images/thumb/6/60/Plate_reader_induzierbar_promotor.png/400px-
Plate_reader_induzierbar_promotor.png)](/File:Plate_reader_induzierbar_promotor.png)  
  
---  
|

**Fig. 1: Luminescence measurements of the inducible _B. subtilis_ promoter P
_liaI_ after induction with different concentrations of bacitracin.** OD600
(up), LUMI (middle) and LUMI per OD600 (down) of two clones (green/blue)
depending on the time (h) after induction with bacitracin (0 μg/ml (left) to
100 μg/ml (right)). Data derive from three independent experiments. The graphs
show the mean value for three experiments and the standard deviation. Curves
were fitted over each other (t=0, OD600=0.3) and smoothed by taking the
average of three neighboring values. t=0 is the time of induction.  
  
---  
  
All clones show a normal growth behaviour up to a bacitracin concentration of
10 μg/ml. At higher concentrations of bacitracin the growth curves decrease
because the cells lyse. The promoter P _liaI_ shows a basal activity of about
10.000 Lumi/OD600. After induction with bacitracin the Lumi/OD600 increases
depending of the concentration of bacitracin. The highest activity of about
1.5 Mio Lumi/OD600 can be measured after induction with 10-30 μg/ml
bacitracin. To see the induction of this inducible promoter in comparison to
an uninducible promoter we also did induction experiments with P _liaG_ ,
which should not be inducible by bacitracin. As expected there is no response
to the induction with bacitracin and P _liaG_ shows a constant maximum of
about 10.000 Lumi/OD600 (Data not shown).

  
  

For better demonstration of the P _liaI_ activity as a function of the
bacitracin concentration, data from one timepoint at the experiment (Fig. 1)
are shown depending on the bacitracin concentration ( **Fig. 2** ). Therefore
Lumi/OD600 values are shown for the time point t=3,5h.

| [![800px-Titration PliaI.png](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b0/800px-
Titration_PliaI.png/400px-800px-Titration_PliaI.png)](/File:800px-
Titration_PliaI.png)  
---  
|

**Fig. 2: Promoter activity of P _liaI_ depending on the bacitracin
concentration (0,1 μg/ml to 100 μg/ml).** Values of the experiment (Fig. 1)
are shown in a different way: Luminescence per OD600 of both clones
(blue/green) from the time point t=3.5h. Data derive from three independent
experiments.  
  
---  
  
  
  

### β-galactosidase assay

  

The inducible promoter P _liaI_ was also evaluated with the reporter vector
pSB _Bs_ 1C- _lacZ_. ( **Fig.3** ).

  

|

[![Englisch Auswertung
PliaI.png](/wiki/images/thumb/f/f9/Englisch_Auswertung_PliaI.png/400px-
Englisch_Auswertung_PliaI.png)](/File:Englisch_Auswertung_PliaI.png)  
  
---  
|

**Fig. 3: β-galactosidase assay with (grey) and without (black) induction of
bacitracin (20 μg/ml) of strains carrying the promoter P _liaI_ fused to
_lacZ_**. The average of the β-galactosidase activity (Miller Units) and the
standard deviation of two independent clones are shown depending on the time
(minutes after induction). This graph shows representative data from three
independent experiments.  
  
---  
  
Promoter activity leads to the expression of the β-galactosidase. The
β-galactosidase assay of the inducible _Bacillus_ promoter P _liaI_ was
repeated three times. We induced with bacitracin (20μg/ml) when the cultures
reached an OD600 of 0.4. P _liaI_ does not show any activity without
induction. After induction with bacitracin there is a strong promoter activity
that the produced enzyme reaches an activity of about 500 Miller Units.
Summing up, the promoter activity after induction is about 500 times higher
than without induction.

  
  
  
  

  

### Quantitative Experimental Characterization by Mingdao iGEM Team 2019

To verify the function of PliaI promoter in our system, we made a construct
(BBa_K2932004) by assembling RBS-GFP(BBa_I13500) after PliaI and transfer the
cassette of PliaI-RBS-GFP-Terminator to pBS0E, which is a replicative plasmid
in Bacillus subtilis. GFP expression in Bacillus was tested by our induction
procedure.

[![T--Mingdao--2019phil1.png](/wiki/images/thumb/8/88/T--Mingdao--
2019phil1.png/300px-T--Mingdao--2019phil1.png)](/File:T--Mingdao--
2019phil1.png)

  

#### Protocol of PliaI induction

↓ culture Bacillus subtilis 168 carrying the plasmid of PliaI + RBS + GFP +
terminator/pBS0E in LB supplemented with erythromycin (1 μg/ml) and lincomycin
(25 μg/ml) O/N at 37°C, shaking at 170 rpm  
↓ transfer 3 ml to 50 ml LB with antibiotics in 250 ml flask  
↓ measure OD650  
↓ shake at 200rpm,37°C until OD650 between 0.5~0.7  
↓ add 30μg/ml of bacitracin for induction at 25°C, shaking at 100 rpm at the
incubator for 18.5 hr

  

#### Experimental Data

[![T--Mingdao--2019phil2.png](/wiki/images/thumb/4/48/T--Mingdao--
2019phil2.png/400px-T--Mingdao--2019phil2.png)](/File:T--Mingdao--
2019phil2.png)

Our data showed that PliaI is a strong promoter with a low basal level, which
is consistent with the result observed team LMU-Munich in 2012. After
induction with bacitracin, GFP intensity is expressed 2.81-fold higher than
uninduced cells. The pellets can be easily seen with naked eyes. (Left to
right: PliaI, PliaI + Bacitracin, PliaI-RBS-GFP, PliaI-RBS-GFP + Bacitracin)

### Sequence and Features

This part was amplified from the genome of _B. subtilis_.  

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K823001)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/bsubtilis  
//promoter  
//rnap/prokaryote/subtilis/sigmaa

Parameters

None|

