---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K316003"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K316003)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K316003:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K316003:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K316003)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[6 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K316003)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K316003)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K316003

Designed by: IC 2010 Team   Group: iGEM10_Imperial_College_London
(2010-10-22)

XylE - catechol 2,3-dioxygenase from P.putida with terminator

Catechol or catechol 2,3-dioxygenases (C2,3O) + O(2) is converted by a ring
cleavage into 2-hydroxymuconate semialdehyde which is the cytotoxic and bright
yellow-coloured product1. This is a key enzyme in many (soil) bacterial
species used for the degradation of aromatic compounds. Catechol
2,3-dioxygenase2 was originally isolated from Pseudomonas putida and is active
only as a homotetramer. Tetramerization, mediated via beta-sheets in the
N-terminal regions of the monomers, allows formation of the active site which
covalently binds a ferrous ion. The reaction itself takes place within seconds
after the addition by Pasteur pipette or spraying of catechol at a 100mM stock
solution diluted with DDH20 (used by our lab.) The toxic breakdown product is
thought to interfere with cell wall integrity and cellular machinery such that
exposed cells gradually die.  
Further experiments by [TU Darmstadt 2012
team](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Labjournal/Metabolism) found
protocatechuic acid to be another suitable substrate for decarboxylation by
XylE. For kinetics and further information, please check the part
characterisation section.

  
**Safety**

Catechol is classed as irritant in the EU but as toxic in the USA, as well as
being a possible carcinogen. It should therefore be handled with care and
proper safety equipment. More information is available on the Material Safety
Data Sheet[[1]](http://www.sciencelab.com/msds.php?msdsId=9927131).

  

  
**Sequence and Features**

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal NgoMIV site found at 337  
Illegal NgoMIV site found at 509  
Illegal AgeI site found at 860  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

## Part Characterisation

  
**Characterization in r.p.u. of Pveg promoter**

  
Aims of experiment | Measuring the activity of BioBrick promoters using an in
vivo reference standard.

Results | pVeg promoter in pSB1C3 vector, a high copy plasmid, has an 1.62
r.p.u value and in 3K3 vector, a low copy plasmid an 0.79 r.p.u. value. These
values were derived by dividing signal from the production of HMS by the pVeg
promoter population of cells by signal from the standard promoter J23101
(r.p.u value of 1)

See experience page for more information or the [Imperial iGEM 2010
wiki](http://2010.igem.org/Team:Imperial_College_London/Results/Exp7) for full
details of the assay

  
  
  
---  
  
**Optimum absorbtion wavelength for catechol assays**

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/6/68/SpectraXylE.PNG/400px-
SpectraXylE.PNG.jpeg)](/File:SpectraXylE.PNG)

[](/File:SpectraXylE.PNG "Enlarge")

Peak absorbance of catechol breakdown product (2-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde

The enzymatic reaction catalysed by XylE can also serve as a powerful
reporter. The substrate - catechol - is colourless. However within seconds of
its addition, the colonies or suspended cultures of XylE-expressing cells
become clearly yellow3 to the naked eye. This reaction allows direct
measurement of XylE activity by measuring product concentrations, which
absorbs light in the visible spectrum, at 380nm. In contrast to other common
reporters like GFP, LacZ or Luciferase which do easily express correctly in
thermophile environments, a XylE assay has also been shown to be functional in
here. The spectrophotometric assay compared the spectra of two cultures of
E.coli (one XylE gene transformed and the other not) were compared on addition
of 0.1mM Catechol substrate.

A spectrophotometric assay of two cultures of E.coli (Blue: contains
[BBa_K316004](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K316004
"BBa_K316004"), Red: not expressing XylE ) were compared on addition of 0.1mM
Catechol substrate. The spectra show that in XylE transformed cells, a broad
peak appears at about 380nm. The absorbance at this particular wavelength is
due to the yellow product of the reaction (2-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde
(HMS)).

|  
---  
  
**_In Vitro_ Assay**

[![Experiment6.PNG](/wiki/images/thumb/7/7b/Experiment6.PNG/400px-
Experiment6.PNG.jpeg)](/File:Experiment6.PNG)

[](/File:Experiment6.PNG "Enlarge")

Due to technical limitations, to measure kinetic parameters of XylE is to lyse
cells and . In this experiment cell lysate was assayed with increasing
catechol concentrations. The rate at which the yellow product appears is
directly proportional to the velocity of the reaction. The rate reaction was
monitored by measuring color output of the reaction in the plate reader.

Cell lysate was tested for dioxygenase activity to determine appropriate
dilutions for the assay. The cell lysate was obtained from a 100ml overnight
culture and diluted by a factor of 20 to obtain a suitable concentration of
total enzyme for the plate reader assay. The concentrations of catechol used
were 1, 2, 5, 10, 25, 50 mM.

Data collected was used to construct the Michaelis-Menten curve for the in
vitro kinetics of XylE in cell lysate. Michaelis-Menten curve was drawn using
velocity values calculated from the slope at the initial stages of the
reaction, as this is the only time when substrate concentration values are
accurate. The plot was delineated by non-linear regression analysis using
GraFit software tool[[2]](http://www.erithacus.com/grafit/). The calculated Km
is 0.71mM catechol (with a Vmax of 3.37 in O.D. arbitrary units for this
dilution of cell lysate).

For more detailed information, please check our wiki
[[3]](http://2010.igem.org/Team:Imperial_College_London/Results/Exp6)

|  
  
**Protocatechuic acid as an alternative substrate**

The [iGEM team TU Darmstadt 2012](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt)
found XylE uses protocatechuic acid as a substrate as well. The reaction of
protocatechuic acid to analog 3-carboxy-cis,cis-muconic acid runs slower than
the reaction of catechol. The kinetics proved to be not typical Michaelis
Menten kinetics. The figure shows a sigmoidal graph. Also, the Eadie-Hofstee
plot shows an atypical curve (a linear graph is expected for Michaelis Menten
kinetics). These results indicate the biobrick to be an allosteric enzyme or
the employment of cooperativity for the catalyzed reaction. Further
information can be found in the [TU Darmstadt 2012
wiki](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Labjournal/Metabolism#week_7_.2825.-29.06.12.29).

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/2d/HeSmeaXylE.png/400px-
HeSmeaXylE.png)](/File:HeSmeaXylE.png)

[](/File:HeSmeaXylE.png "Enlarge")

Michaelis Menten kinetics of XylE with protocatechuic acid as a subsstrate.
Note the sigmodial curve.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/e/e8/Eadiehofstee.png/400px-
Eadiehofstee.png)](/File:Eadiehofstee.png)

[](/File:Eadiehofstee.png "Enlarge")

The Eadie Hofstee plot shares no characteristic with typical Michaelis Menten
kinetics.

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
  
  
---  
  
**Cytotoxicity of Catechol**

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/d/dd/XylE_M9_Growth_%28600%29.jpg/400px-
XylE_M9_Growth_%28600%29.jpg)](/File:XylE_M9_Growth_\(600\).jpg)

[](/File:XylE_M9_Growth_\(600\).jpg "Enlarge")

O.D. at 600 over 3h for XylE-transformed Top10 cells in presence of different
catechol concentrations, growing in M9 medium.

The addition of catechol had distinctive deleterious effects on XylE
expressing cells. While at 0% catechol growth-behavior did not show a
significant change (dark blue), even the lowest concentration of 0.25%
catechol appeared to drastically reduce cell-survival (red). In contrast, CMR-
control cells did not change their growing behavior in the presence of
catechol. From this we conclude that the breakdown product of catechol,
2-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde, and not Catechol itself, has strong cytotoxic
effects

|  
  
* * *

Characterisation data was obtained for XylE
[BBa_K316003](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K316003
"BBa_K316003"). In addition constructs under two different promoters:
J23101-XylE
[BBa_K316004](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K316004
"BBa_K316004") from _E. coli_ was used to categorise _B. subtilis_ derived
Pveg-XylE [BBa_K316005](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K316005
"BBa_K316005"). Also GFP-XylE constructs
[BBa_K316007](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K316007
"BBa_K316007") were tested to determine the effectiveness of inhibition of
XylE activity by attachment of GFP. These are described on our
wiki[[4]](http://2010.igem.org/Team:Imperial_College_London/Results) and the
aforementioned parts pages.

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K316003 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 13.8 ± 13.4%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

  

  

### References

<biblio>

  1. 1 pmid=10368270
  2. 2 pmid=12519074
  3. 3 pmid=6405380

</biblio>

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K316003)]

Categories

Parameters

n/a| XylE - catechol 2,3-dioxygenase from P.putida with terminator

