---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K805015"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K805015)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K805015:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K805015:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K805015)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[3 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K805015)

[2 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K805015)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K805015)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K805015

Designed by: Han Jiapeng   Group: iGEM12_HUST-China   (2012-09-25)

CsgD, the master regulator of biofilm formation

CsgD, the master regulator of biofilm formation, activates the synthesis of
curli fimbriae and extracellular polysaccharides in Escherichia coli.

### Characterization and Improving Function

### Team: TAS_Taipei 2017

Author: Justin Yang  

### SDS-PAGE

BBa_K2229100 contains and expresses CsgD (BBa_K805015). SDS-PAGE results show
CsgD protein around 25 kDa, which matches the expected size.
![Fig_3-15_resize.jpeg](http://2017.igem.org/wiki/images/5/54/Fig_3-15_resize.jpeg)
**SDS-PAGE results show that BBa_K2229100, BBa_2229200, and BBa_K2229300
overexpress CsgD, OmpR234, or both proteins, respectively. Predicted proteins
from the curli operons are listed on the right, and _E. coli_ expressing GFP
was used as a positive control.**  

### CONGO RED ASSAY

We used Congo Red (CR), a dye commonly used to measure biofilm production
(Reinke & Gestwicki 2011). CR solution mixed with bacterial liquid cultures
were transferred to 12-well plates with glass coverslips, and incubated at
37ËšC for one day. If biofilms were present, the solution would appear red,
which could be quantified by an absorbance value at 500 nm. Overexpression of
CsgD (BBa_K2229100) in our experiments doubles biofilm production compared to
the control BBa_K805015. When bacteria expressing CsgD were plated in petri
dishes, biofilms appeared thicker compared to controls.
![3-16_resize_resize_resize.jpeg](http://2017.igem.org/wiki/images/2/2e/3-16_resize_resize_resize.jpeg)  
  
**Overexpression of CsgD (BBa_K2229100) doubles biofilm production. A) Congo
red assay stains biofilm (red). B) Stained biofilm is solubilized in ethanol.
C) Absorbance is measured at 500 nm.**  
  

# BBa_K2229300 Improves the Function of BBa_K805015

  

### Team: TAS_Taipei 2017

Author: Justin Yang  

Our new composite part **BBa_K2229300** improves the function of two existing
parts: BBa_K342003 ( _ompR234_ ORF) and BBa_K805015 ( _csgD_ ORF). CsgD and
OmpR234 are regulators of two curli operons, which contribute to biofilm
formation. When both proteins are overexpressed, we hypothesized that twice
the amount of curli monomers should be made and exported to form fibers and
biofilm.

### SDS-PAGE

Cultures carrying BBa_K2229300 (CsgD and OmpR234 expression) showed two extra
bands at 15 kDa and 30 kDa, which were not observed in cultures expressing
either CsgD or OmpR234 alone. We looked into the other curli operon genes, and
found that CsgG is around 30 kDa, whereas CsgA, B, C, E, and F are all around
15 kDa ( _Robinson et al._ 2006; _Uhlich et al._ 2009; _Shu et al._ 2012).
This suggests that, as expected, BBa_K2229300 stimulates the production of all
curli proteins (predicted proteins and sizes are labeled in the SDS-PAGE
figure above).

### CONGO RED ASSAY

![Fig_3-19_resize_2.jpeg](http://2017.igem.org/wiki/images/d/d3/Fig_3-19_resize_2.jpeg)  
**Overexpression of both CsgD and OmpR234 (BBa_K2229300) increases biofilm
production the most. A) Congo red assay stains biofilms. BBa_K2229300
increases adhesion to glass surfaces. B) Stained biofilm is solubilized in
ethanol. C) Absorbance is measured at 500 nm.**

When all three expression constructs were compared, we find that
overexpression of OmpR234 and CsgD together (BBa_K2229300) increased biofilm
production the most. BBa_K2229300 also increased adhesion to glass coverslips,
and we could see a layer of biofilm which remained attached to the glass
surface after the washing steps.

  

  

# BBa_K3490001 Improves the Function of BBa_K805015

  

### Team: NCKU_Tainan 2020

Author: Virginia Clarence Setiawan  

  
  
**Improvement: Overview**  
  
One of the goals we want to achieve is to attach our bacteria to the inner
chamber of the contact lens. Here, we used _csgD_ , a master regulator of
biofilm production; and _csgA_ , a major subunit of the curli fimbriae. Based
on research, curli fibers are involved in adhesion to surfaces, cell
aggregation, and biofilm formation.[2] As a transcription factor of curli
proteins, CsgD can regulate the expression of _csgA_ , leading to biofilm
production.  
Therefore, we are trying to improve BBa_K805015 from the 2017 iGEM TAS-Taipei
Team[3] to obtain maximum results of biofilm production and improve the
biofilm binding affinity. So, the bacteria will stay attached to the contact
lenses despite any damages.  
We hypothesized that by adding _csgA_ and _pLac_ to the biobrick design, the
amount of biofilm produced could be increased. Thus, the overproduction of
biofilm can initiate the bacteria to bind securely to the contact lenses.
Therefore, we add _csgA_ to the biobrick design and change the promoter into
_pLac_ as an improvement.  

![](https://2020.igem.org/wiki/images/1/1b/T--NCKU_Tainan--
Improvment_CsgDA.gif)

Fig. 1. A schematic of our biobrick construction.

  
**Experiment Results**  
  
First, we ran SDS-PAGE to identify and quantify the protein expression of CsgA
and CsgD. We cultured the bacteria for 2 hours, then added IPTG to induce for
12 hours long, and adjusted the OD600 value to three. As a comparison, we used
plasmid that contains _pLac-csgD_ on BW25113, improved parts that include
_NOS_ , _csgA_ , and _csgD_ on BW25113, and using PCA24N as control. After
that, we transformed into _E. coli_ BL21(DE3) strain. The expected protein
size of CsgD is around 24 kDa and CsgA around 17 kDa. The results below have
shown the outcome we expected for CsgA and CsgD protein expression.

  

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/1/15/T--NCKU_Tainan--
BBa_K3490001-csgd.png)

Fig.2. SDS-PAGE of _E.coli_ BL21(DE3). M: Marker; Lane 1: Wild type _csgD_ in
PCA24N; Lane 2: Wild type BW25113 (control); Lane 3: Knockout _csgD_ in
PCA24N; Lane 4: Knockout BW25113 (control); Lane 5: BL21(DE3)- _nos_ - _csgA_
- _csgD_. The arrow from top to bottom indicates NOS (~40kDa), CsgD (~24kDa),
and CsgA (~17kDa).

  
  
Next, to prove that our amount of biofilm production is increasing, we did a
test using congo red[4] dye to observe the curli expression. We compared the
absorbance value of BBa_K805015 and BBa_K3490001 to see whether the amount of
biofilm production increases or not. If the biofilm amount increases, the
color of the solution will appear to be darker. So, after overnight culture,
we add congo red dye to all the samples. Then we centrifuge to separate the
supernatant and precipitate (pellet). By using a microplate reader, we can
measure the absorbance value at 500 nm (congo red) and normalized by 600 nm
wavelength which represents the amount of bacteria.  

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/d/d6/T--NCKU_Tainan--congo_red_ver2.png)

Fig.3. Amount of biofilm being produced by bacteria with different genetic
backgrounds at different times.

  
  
However, only testing the amount of biofilm production and congo red staining
is not enough to fully support our aims that enhance biofilm production and
improve the binding affinity of the bacteria. Therefore, we conduct another
experiment to compare the binding affinity of bacteria among control, _csgD_ ,
and _csgA_ - _csgD_. We presume that binding affinity is determined by the
ability of bacteria to remain attached to surfaces regardless of the external
forces applied. Here, we threw a book from different heights and measuring its
OD600 value. By doing so, we can determine the concentration that represents
the binding affinity.  

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/3/33/T--NCKU_Tainan--
BBa_K3490001-new_graph.png)

Fig.4. The binding affinity of wild type, CsgD, and CsgA-CsgD at different
heights of force. The two asterisks represent 0.001 value, and three asterisks
denote 0.0001 value.

  
  
As seen in the graph above, _csgA_ - _csgD_ shows an increase in OD600 value
when a greater force is given. Hence, we are able to prove that not only
enhances the production of biofilm, but our engineered bacteria can also
improve its binding affinity. Therefore, we can conclude that we have
successfully improved the previous biobrick BBa_K805015 by adding _csgA_ and
changing the promoter into BBa_K3490001.  
  
**Reference**  
  
[1] BRENDA - Information on EC 1.14.13.39 - nitric-oxide synthase (NADPH).
Brenda-enzymes.org. <https://www.brenda-
enzymes.org/enzyme.php?ecno=1.14.13.39#pH%20OPTIMUM>. Published 2020. Accessed
September 9, 2020.  
[2] Barnhart MM, Chapman MR. Curli Biogenesis and Function. Annual Review of
Microbiology. 2006;60(1):131-147.  
[3] Part:BBa K805015 - parts.igem.org. Igem.org.
<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K805015>. Published 2013. Accessed September
21, 2020.  
[4] Jones CJ, Wozniak DJ. Congo Red Stain Identifies Matrix Overproduction and
Is an Indirect Measurement for c-di-GMP in Many Species of Bacteria. c-di-GMP
Signaling. 2017:147-156.

  

  

  

  

  

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K805015)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

