---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K554000"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,collections, immune_regulation, sense-control] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554000)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554000:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554000:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K554000)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[7 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K554000)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K554000)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K554000

Designed by: UNICAMP_EMSE Brazil team   Group: iGEM11_Brazil-France
(2011-09-21)

SoxS promoter

SoxS is a promoter regulated by the SoxR transcription factor, which is
activated by NO. _E. coli_ can naturally respond to redox signals through a
superoxide stress system composed by [SoxR
gene](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554003), SoxS promoter and the genes
associated with SoxS promoter. Thus, in the presence of NO,
[SoxR](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554003) activates transcription of the
gene regulated by SoxS promoter (Hidalgo et al, 1998). The SoxS promoter is
used by [UNICAMP-EMSE Brazil team](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-
EMSE_Brazil) in the [NO sensor device/ IL-10
producer](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-
EMSE_Brazil/Project#Device_2:_NO_sensor.2FIL-10_producer) ("Device 2", which
senses NO levels and responds by producing and secreting IL-10.

  

### Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

### Usage and Biology

    

  * This promoter is used by [UNICAMP-EMSE Brazil team](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-EMSE_Brazil) in the [NO sensor device](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-EMSE_Brazil/Project/Device2) ("Device 2", which senses NO levels and responds by producing and secreting IL-10. This part is shown in the red box in the following schema:

[![UNICAMP EMSE NO device
schema.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/9/96/UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg/600px-
UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg)

## Three-dimensional structure representation

You can find below a tridimensional structure of _Escherichia coli_
[SoxR](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554003) protein bound to SoxS promoter
(DNA structure) (retrieved from PDB 2zhg, Watanabe et al. 2008), with both p35
(chain A) and p40 (chain B) chains. This is a jmol applet, in which you can
interactively see the protein format:  

  

  

## MIT_MAHE 2020

**Usage and Biology**

The oxidation state of the iron-sulfur clusters in SoxR regulates the
transcriptional activity of the protein: while reduced SoxR does not affect
transcription, oxidized SoxR dramatically enhances the transcription rate of
soxS, a gene that codes for a second transcriptional activator. The SoxS
protein is a member of the AraC/XylS family of transcriptional regulators.

It is a pleiotropic regulator that binds many sites across the genome and
plays an important role in antibiotic resistance through its influence on
efflux activity. It also impacts biofilm formation, quorum sensing,
pathogenicity and motility.

It has been shown that there is a rapid increase in transcription of soxS
following exposure to antibiotics (and other inducer substrates), but that
repression is rapidly reinstated following removal of the stimuli. The pool of
pre-produced transcriptional regulators is degraded by proteases including
Lon, and this “resetting” in impaired in lon deficient mutants (Griffith et
al., 2004; Ricci et al., 2014). This ability to quickly produce, but then
degrade SoxS allows for a fine-tuned, fast response to environmental stimuli
to maximize bacterial fitness when under stress.

As well as controlling membrane permeability through efflux pump and outer
membrane porin expression, SoxS is important for initiating transcription of
genes to reduce superoxide and nitric oxide stress in the cell. When efflux is
disrupted, cells respond with overexpression of this transcriptional
regulator, though it is not understood by which mechanism this is regulated.

Binding of Fe-SoxR to the wild-type soxS promoter improved the subsequent
binding of RNAP nearly 5-fold as determined by densitometric analysis.

As well as AcrAB-TolC, SoxS can also regulate the expression of other efflux
pumps, such as the RND pump AcrEF (Bailey et al., 2010) and a member of the
multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) family, mdtK (Sun et al., 2011)
in response to environmental stress.

Increased expression of marA, ramA, and soxS up regulates efflux activity to
allow detoxification of the cell. However, this also results in trade-offs in
other phenotypes, such as impaired growth rates, biofilm formation and
virulence.

[![SoxS
structure.png](/wiki/images/d/d4/SoxS_structure.png)](/File:SoxS_structure.png)

### References

Hidalgo E, Leautaud V, Demple B (1998) The redox-regulated SoxR protein acts
from a single DNA site as a repressor and an allosteric activator. The EMBO
Journal 17(9)2629–2636 [Link to
Pubmed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=9564045%20)

Watanabe S, Kita A, Kobayashi K, Miki K. Crystal structure of the [2Fe-2S]
oxidative-stress sensor SoxR bound to DNA.Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Mar
18;105(11):4121-6. Epub 2008 Mar 11. [Link to
PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18334645)

Holden, E. R., & Webber, M. A. (2020). MarA, RamA, and SoxS as Mediators of
the Stress Response: Survival at a Cost. Frontiers in microbiology, 11, 828.
<https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2020.00828>

Pomposiello, P. J., & Demple, B. (2000). Identification of SoxS-regulated
genes in Salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium. Journal of bacteriology,
182(1), 23–29. <https://doi.org/10.1128/jb.182.1.23-29.2000>

Nunoshiba, T., Hidalgo, E., Amábile Cuevas, C. F., & Demple, B. (1992). Two-
stage control of an oxidative stress regulon: the Escherichia coli SoxR
protein triggers redox-inducible expression of the soxS regulatory gene.
Journal of bacteriology, 174(19), 6054–6060.
<https://doi.org/10.1128/jb.174.19.6054-6060.1992>

Structure:

<https://www.rcsb.org/structure/2ZHG>

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K554000)]

Categories

//collections/immune_regulation/sense-control

Parameters

None|

