---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K539742"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K539742)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K539742:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K539742:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K539742)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K539742)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K539742

Designed by: Yang, Yi-Pei   Group: iGEM11_NCTU_Taiwan   (2011-09-22)

TetR repressible promoter (BBa_R0040)+ kivd (alpha-ketoisovalerate
decarboxylase)+Ter (BBa_B0015)

  
![Butanol-4.png](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/8/8b/Butanol-4.png)

The part is built in kivd and TetR repressible promoter that constitutively ON
and repressed by tetR. And in the end,
terminator[Part:BBa_B0015](/Part:BBa_B0015 "Part:BBa B0015") is included. The
coding sequence of kivd is from Lactococcus lactis subsp. It encodes alpha-
ketoisovalerate decarboxylase which is responsible for the decarboxylation
into aldehydes of α-keto acids derived from amino acid transamination. This is
part of the isobutanol biosynthesis pathway. We want to make the isobutanol
biosynthetic pathway under low-temperature induced system that has been
constructed by 2010 NCTU Formosa. Combining this circuit with
[BBa_K539691](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539691) which is included gene
of alss, ilvC, ilvD achieve the high production in isobutanol.

In traditional genetic engineering method(Figure 1), we use strong promoter to
initiate our genes, but this way E.coli will overexpress the proteins we need
in synthetic pathway. However, this overexpression of target proteins will
cause E.coli wastes its limited growth resources, or the activity and
performance of the enzymes may be too low. In this situation, it unbalances
the synthetic pathway, and the production of isobutanol will not be optimum.
This is also a problem in the production of isobutanol which is poisonous to
E.coli.  
[![Butanol.1.jpg](/wiki/images/4/48/Butanol.1.jpg)](/File:Butanol.1.jpg)

**Figure 1.Traditional genetic engineering method.**  
To solve the problem, we need to adjust the expression of the genes, and make
sure every intermediate can be catalyzed by the very next enzyme. The
intermediates of isobutanol can be catalyzed step by step till they become the
target products we want. In the new method we design, we control the pathway
by stopping the mechanism when it reaches the step to produce non-toxic
intermediate (2-Ketoisovalerate ) which we want to accumulate, then under
specific thermal control, the mechanism would continue to express. The
advantage of our new method is that the precursors are much less toxic for
E.coli than our target product (isobutanol) is. We then apply this new method
to our project. We first accumulate lots of the non-toxic intermediate as the
precursor, 2-Ketoisovalerate, to a certain amount, and then convert the entire
non-toxic precursor into the product, isobutanol, all at once.

In order to achieve the goal of our experimental design, we apply carbohydrate
fermentation to gain our product. First, we choose glucose as the resource to
get through biosynthetic pathway, and we can harvest isobutanol which is the
derivative of butanol. Glucose can be catalyzed into isobutanol through
afterward enzymes- Alss, Ilvc, Ilvd,and Kivd step by step. We can also stop
any step to accumulate the intermediates we want (see picture Overall
Reaction).

  
![Pathway%28small%29-2.jpg](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/e/ec/Pathway%28small%29-2.jpg)

**Figure 2. Overall conception of isobutanol synthesis pathway**

  

We clone the genes which will be translated into enzymes such as AlsS, IlvC,
IlvD ,KivD, and assemble the genes into two
circuits([BBa-K539691](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539691) and
[BBa_K539742](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_KK539742)) as following. The
enzymes are crucial for producing butanol.(Reference: Atsumi, S.; T. Hanai and
J.C. Liao (2008) Non-Fermentative Pathways for Synthesis of Branched-Chain
Higher Alcohols as Biofuels, Nature, 451:86-89.)

  
[![Butanol.5.jpg](/wiki/images/8/80/Butanol.5.jpg)](/File:Butanol.5.jpg)

**Figure 3. When the temperature reaches 37℃, tetR will be expressed and TetR
will inhibit ptet. In this way, **Part:BBa_K539742** will not be expressed.**

  

**Expression analysis in different host cell**

We transform the circuit [BBa_K539742](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539742)
,which is inserted in pSB4A5, into DH5α and EPI300 and collect the bacteria
incubated for 0HR, 24HR and 40 HR to find out the most appropriate host cell.
After the analysis of GC we find out that DH5α is much better than EPI300 for
this circuit, because it can provide higher productive rate of isobutanol.
Therefore, we chose DH5α as the host in the following experiments.

![Butanol-10.1.png](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/9/9d/Butanol-10.1.png)

**Figure 4. This diagram indicates that DH5α is very suitable for this
circuit[K539742](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539742) , because it can
provide higher productive rate of isobutanol.**

  

**Comparison of isobutanol production under low-temperature released device or
not**

We construct two devices. The first one is normal butanol synthetic device
that includes alss, ilvC, ilvD and kivd
only.([BBa_K539671](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539671) and
[BBa_K539742](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539742) ) The second one
includes alss, ilvC, ilvD and kivd with low-temperature released device.(
[BBa_K539691](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539691) and
[BBa_K539742](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539742) )As the result, in both
devices, they tend to produce isobutanol increasingly in lower incubation
temperature. However, the tendency is much more significant in low-temperature
released device. We successfully improve the production of isobutanol by low-
temperature released device.

![Butanol-15.png](http://2011.igem.org/wiki/images/3/3f/Butanol-15.png)

  
**Figure 5.** Control group (non-temperature controlled
device):[BBa_K539671](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539671) and
[BBa_K539742](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539742) Experimental group(low-
temperature released
device):[BBa_K539691](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539691) and
[BBa_K539742](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K539742)  
  
**GC graph in 30℃, 37℃, 42℃**  
Figure 6, 7 and 8 represent the GC analysis of our bacterial culture. The
peaks represent different kinds of alcohol respectively. The time axis is
above the peaks. The peak of isobutanol appears at 4.55 to 4.62 minute.  
First ,we incubate the bacteria at 37℃ and until O.D. reaches 0.5, then
culture it at 30℃, 37℃ and 42℃ for 24hr respectively. We measure the medium
composition by GC. The results are shown in Figure 3, 4 and 5, and we
calculate the area of the peak of isobutanol. As the result, we find out that
the related concentration of isobutanol decreases when the temperature rises.
Combine all the experiments did, our butanol pathway works perfectly with our
low-temperature device.  
![Butanol-16.png](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/d/df/Butanol-16.png)  
**Figure 6.** Cotransform two circuits, BBa_K539691 and BBa_K539742 , into
DH5α. Incubate DH5αat 37℃ until OD reaches 0.5, then transfer it into 30℃ and
incubate for 24hr and we analyze the chemical composition of medium by GC.  
![Butanol-17.png](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/1/1e/Butanol-17.png)  
**Figure 7.** Cotransform two circuits, BBa_K539691 and BBa_K539742, into
DH5α. Incubate DH5αat 37℃ until OD reaches 0.5, then transfer it into 37℃ and
incubate for 24hr and we analyze the chemical composition of medium by GC.  
![Butanol-18.png](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/b/bc/Butanol-18.png)  
**Figure 8.** Cotransform two circuits, BBa_K539691 and BBa_K539742 , into
DH5α. Incubate DH5α at 37℃ until OD reaches 0.5, then transfer it into 42℃ and
incubate for 24hr and we analyze the chemical composition of medium by GC.  
  
**Comment**  
We control the temperature when cultivate E.coli, as what we expected that the
production of isobutanol will increase in lower incubation temperature.  
Concluding above, we make the gene expression under low-temperature released
decice. High temperature contributes to low production of cytotoxic isobutanol
but high accumulation of the non-toxic intermediate, 2-ketoisovalerate. When
we control the temperature to lower degree, the production of isobutanol will
increase. In this way, we successfully gain our target product with the most
efficient method.

  

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 658  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K539742)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

