---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K738002"
author: Generator
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,rna, aptamer] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K738002)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K738002:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K738002:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K738002)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K738002)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_generator.png)

Generator

# Part:BBa_K738002

Designed by: Huachun Liu   Group: iGEM12_ZJU-China   (2012-08-09)

Theophyline riboswitch regulated RNA Scaffold (clover vision 2)

RNA scaffold D0 ([BBa_K738000](/Part:BBa_K738000 "Part:BBa K738000")) was
constructed from a single RNA module d0, which folded into a duplex with PP7
and MS2 aptamer domains that bind PP7 and MS2 fusion proteins. A designed
theophylline aptamer was added on the original scaffold D0 in order to produce
an interaction with MS2 aptamer in the absence of theophylline, thus
disturbing the bind between MS2 aptamer and corresponding protein (Fig 1).

[![Secondary structure version
2.jpg](/wiki/images/7/7c/Secondary_structure_version_2.jpg)](/File:Secondary_structure_version_2.jpg)
[![Tertiary structure version
2.jpg](/wiki/images/a/a5/Tertiary_structure_version_2.jpg)](/File:Tertiary_structure_version_2.jpg)

**Fig 1** Secondary structure (left) and tertiary structure (right) of K738002

  

* * *

However, when theophylline is added, the fold of the loop is changed and thus
the interaction will disappear, leading to the binding between MS2 aptamer and
corresponding protein (Fig 2).

[![Control mechanism of the theophylline
aptamer.jpg](/wiki/images/e/e3/Control_mechanism_of_the_theophylline_aptamer.jpg)](/File:Control_mechanism_of_the_theophylline_aptamer.jpg)

**Fig 2** The control mechanism of the theophylline aptamer.

  

* * *

[![Three versions of
clovers.jpg](/wiki/images/7/76/Three_versions_of_clovers.jpg)](/File:Three_versions_of_clovers.jpg)

**Fig 3** Three versions of clovers. Version 2 has adjacent MS2 and
theophylline aptamer. It has an interaction between the loop of theophylline
aptamer and the stem of MS2 aptamer.

  

* * *

RNA riboscaffold clover 2 can be regulated and controlled through
conformational change by theophylline. When the concentration of Theophylline
is in the range from 0mM to 0.5mM, the concentration of Theophylline and the
resulting fluorescence intensity are directly proportional (Fig 4).
Theophylline concentration beyond certain extent will be hazardous to cells
and how it affects cells depends on strain type.

[![Test of
fluorescence.jpg](/wiki/images/2/26/Test_of_fluorescence.jpg)](/File:Test_of_fluorescence.jpg)

**Fig 4** Tests of fluorescence intensity/ OD change over theophylline
concentration. There’s evident positive correlation fluorescence intensity
between concentration of theophylline added.

[![Fig 5 confocal
image.jpg](/wiki/images/c/cd/Fig_5_confocal_image.jpg)](/File:Fig_5_confocal_image.jpg)

**Fig 5** Different RNA scaffold’s effect on split GFP showing by fluorescence
microscopy. The BL21*DE3 of the E. coli were transformed with pCJDFA+pCJDFB,
pCJDFA+pCJDFB + pCJDD0, and pCJDFA+pCJDFB + pZCCOV 2 (0.5 mM theophylline
adding). As expected, strains without RNA scaffold did not fluoresce. Upon the
existence of RNA scaffold, many of the cells emitted fluorescence indicating a
substantial amount of split GFP combination is permitted because of the
function of RNA scaffold. The brightfield images in the right column depict
all bacterial cells. The GFP images in the left column depict bacterial cells
which emitted fluorescence.

  

### Usage and Biology

This scaffold, by theophylline management, could have a variety of functions,
more than accelerate the reaction, but whether to accelerate or not, the
degree of acceleration and even reduce the reaction rate.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K738002 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: -0.4 ± 1.8%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K738002)]

Categories

//rna/aptamer

Parameters

n/a| Theophyline riboswitch regulated RNA Scaffold

