---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K574004"
author: Signalling
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,classic, signalling, sender, function, cellsignalling] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K574004)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K574004:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K574004:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K574004)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[1 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K574004)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K574004)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_signalling.png)

Signalling

# Part:BBa_K574004

Designed by: Lei Wei   Group: iGEM11_Tsinghua_auto   (2011-09-29)

3OC12HSL regulated by TetR

TetR represses the processing of sending 3OC12HSL, and aTc, which can bind
TetR, can act as an activator in this condition.

### Measuring Expression: Alma 2019

To test the expression and activity of
[BBa_K204047](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K204047), K574004, and
[K1692023](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1692023), we (the Alma College iGEM
team) took the following steps. Equal volumes of mid-log cells were
resuspended in fresh LB + Chloramphenicol. These cultures were incubated for 6
hours at 37C in a tube rotator. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation - the
supernatant was saved for detection of AHL molecules (all those synthesized
during the incubation).

From the remaining cell pellet, proteins were isolated using the B-PER reagent
(Thermo-Scientific). Soluble and Insoluble proteins were then run on an SDS
PAGE gel. The gel was stained with coomaise, and density analsyis was
performed with ImageJ.

[![T--Alma--AHLsynthaseExpression1.png](/wiki/images/b/b4/T--Alma--
AHLsynthaseExpression1.png)](/File:T--Alma--AHLsynthaseExpression1.png)

This is a representative image from several independent replicates. S =
Soluble protein fraction, I = Insoluble protein fraction. The negative control
used in this particular replicate was an uninduced culture of strain
BBa_T9002. Density analysis of this image (found on our Wiki) confirm that
there are no significant bands or signal for the AHL synthase BioBrick
cultures above background in the 20-25 kDa range, which is where the AHL
synthases would be expected to be found.

From these results we were barely able to detect any expression of the AHL
synthase genes - proteins such as LuxI and LasI should be present as bands
slightly below the 25 kDa marker. However the supernatants from similar
cultures did display AHL when tested with the biosensor strain
[BBa_T9002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_T9002). For an exmaple of this
data, please see [BBa_K1692023](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1692023).
Thus, we conclude that the proteins are present but at very low quantities -
likely a result of the degrons present, leading to a very short half-life.

At the same time as performing these experiments, we were able to detect
protein expression for reporters such as RFP (BBa_J04450) and GFP
(BBa_K515005), suggesting that our technique and experimental setup was not
responsible for our inability to see expression of the AHL synthease genes.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 744  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal AgeI site found at 306  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K574004)]

Categories

//classic/signalling/sender  
//function/cellsignalling

Parameters

device_type| Sender| signalling_molecule| 3OC12HSL

