---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K510036"
author: Device
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K510036)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K510036:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K510036:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K510036)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K510036)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_device.png)

Device

# Part:BBa_K510036

Designed by: Victor Alvarez, Felix Reyes and Yolanda Gonzalez   Group:
iGEM11_UPO-Sevilla   (2011-09-20)

Improved Flip Flop (Module II: asRNA)

  
The **Improved Flip Flop**
([BBa_K510019](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K510019) and
[BBa_K510036](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K510036)) is based on the **basic
flip flop** ([BBa_K177038](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K177038)).

Proteolysis is a very common system to regulate gene expression in all
organisms. In bacteria, proteins can be targeted for proteolysis by adding a
special degradation tag in their coding sequences. That’s how the Sspb-Clpx
system works. In E.coli wild type, ClpX recognize specific degradation tags –
ssrA tags -, unfolds the attached protein and translocates this denatured
polypeptide into ClpP for its degradation, which is very fast. The action of
this ClpXP protease is enhanced by the SspB adaptator protein.

The idea is to add the DAS+4 tag to the proteins of one of the states of the
flip-flop and express the Sspb under the promoter of the opposed state.
Specifically, it's added the DAS+4 tag to the GFP and the LacI proteins,
expressed under the cI promoter, and under the Lac promoter Sspb is expressed.

Furthermore, asRNAs are short non-coding RNAs that can inhibit mRNA
translation by binding to the 5’ untranslated region (UTR) of that mRNA. That
is the case of the Salmonella _OmpN_ gene, whose translation is inhibited by
the conserved RybB asRNA, which forms a short duplex with the ompN CDS.

This device has a fusion of OmpN start sequence with those proteins whose
translation we want to regulate. The RybB asRNA binds to nucleotides from 5th
to 20th relative to AUG. Consequently, a shorter fusion in which it's fused
the first 7 codons of the OmpN gene CDS upstream of the RFP and Sspb CDS.
**These fusions do include the OmpN RBS**.

[![UPOSevilla
finalconstruction.png](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1a/UPOSevilla_finalconstruction.png/800px-
UPOSevilla_finalconstruction.png)](/File:UPOSevilla_finalconstruction.png)

Here we show the final structure of our improved bistable. As well as the two
operons with their protein fusions and the promoter with the asRNA, we show
the different restriction sites we have introduced and the enzymes that target
each site. Finally, the total length of our construction is indicated in the
figure.

  
**[IMPORTANT](/wiki/index.php?title=IMPORTANT&action=edit&redlink=1 "IMPORTANT
\(page does not exist\)")** : This biobrick complements the **Improved Flip
Flop (Module I)** , the module II is necessary for the correct running. You
can find it in [Part:BBa_K510019](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K510019)

  
**For further information please vistit
our[wiki](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UPO-Sevilla) or contact with us at
igem@upo.es**

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K510036)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

