---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K774004"
author: Reporter
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774004)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774004:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774004:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K774004)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K774004)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)

Reporter

BM-CFP

# Part:BBa_K774004

Designed by: NRP-UEA-Norwich   Group: iGEM12_NRP_UEA-Norwich   (2012-09-19)

Bacterial-Mammalian promoter with eCFP reporter: BBaK216005 + CArG promoter
sequence + BBa_E0420  
  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/5/52/BM-CFP_Qualitative_data.jpg/400px-BM-
CFP_Qualitative_data.jpg)](/File:BM-CFP_Qualitative_data.jpg)

[](/File:BM-CFP_Qualitative_data.jpg "Enlarge")

_Pellets of E. coli transformed by this part ligated to BBa_E0420 (an RBS and
CFP reporter) and grown in media with added concentrations of potassium
nitrate. Going from left to right in concentrations of potassium nitrate: 10
mM, 50 mM, 100 mM and 0 mM_

**Aim:** Our hybrid promoter hopes to add to the systems already in the
registry by creating a hybrid promoter that combines the bacterial promoter
PyeaR and the mammalian CArG element , both of which respond to exogenous
nitrogenous species. Combining the two would allow a more modular NO sensor
that can be used in mammalian and bacterial cells interchangeably. The hybrid
promoter has been attached to the reporter: enhanced Cyan Fluorescence Protein
(eCFP). The hybrid promoter has been characterised by observing expression of
flourescent protein, and found to have increased transcription in response to
increasing concentrations of potassium nitrate.  
  
This image (right) shows competent cells transformed with part: BBa K774004
and grown in media containing potassium nitrate (as a source of nitrates in
order to induce promoter activity) at concentrations of 0 mM, 10 mM, 50 mM and
100 mM (from right to left). The E. coli was grown for 6 hours and then added
to eppendorf tubes and spun down in a centrifuge in order to produce a pellet.
The four samples were then viewed under a UV box to assess for fluorescence;
as the photograph to the right shows that the sample at 0 mM potassium nitrate
did not fluoresce, however those at 10, 50 and 100 mM potassium nitrate did
fluoresce. They also appeared to fluoresce at the same strength, suggesting
that 10 mM was equal to or above the maximum sensitivity level of this part.

_E. coli_ containing this part were then grown in media at 0 mM, 5 mM, 10 mM,
15 mM and 20 mM potassium nitrate concentrations over night before being
lysed. The lysed product was then run through a fluorometer in order to gain
data of the intensity of expression at different concentrations of substrate.

**NOTE: All data for the fluorometer has had the equivalent 0 mM reading
subtracted from it in order to nulify the affects of light scattering due to
cell debris**  
  

[![BM-CFP Graph.png](/wiki/images/7/7d/BM-CFP_Graph.png)](/File:BM-
CFP_Graph.png)  
  
The graph above shows the flourescence measured from the expression of eCFP
due to the response of the bacterial-mammalian promoter to different
concentrations of potassium nitrate. The wavelength reading which corresponds
to eCFP is between 440-500nm. The graph clearly demonstrates that between 0mM
and 15mM there is a proportional relationship between fluorescence intensity
and potassium nitrate concentration. There appears to be a sharp increase in
fluorescence intensity between 5mM and 10mM, and the rate at which intensity
increase gradually decreases so that there is only a small increase between
15mM and 20mM.

  
  

[![CFP Comparison
Graph.png](/wiki/images/3/3d/CFP_Comparison_Graph.png)](/File:CFP_Comparison_Graph.png)  
  
We were initially unsure of the effect that the orientation of the bacterial
(pYEAR) and the mammalian (CaRG) genes would have on gene expression,
therefore we synthesised two hybrid promoters in the orientation bacterial-
mammalian and mammalian-bacterial. The graph above compares the intensity of
fluorescence of the two hybrid promoters (BBa_K774004 and BBa_K774006) ligated
to eCFP. There is a distinct difference between the intensity of fluorescence
produced by the bacterial-mammalian promoter and the mammalian-bacterial
promoter; which is something that we would like to look into further. It is
particularly interesting that at an intensity of 109a.u. the mammalian-
bacterial promoter returns to the same level of intensity as the suggested
maxiumum of the bacterial-mammalian promoter at 40a.u.

## Sequencing

[![BM CFP.png](/wiki/images/e/e5/BM_CFP.png)](/File:BM_CFP.png)  
  
**BLAST Analysis**  
To review the success of the sequencing of the BioBrick sample, the predicted
DNA sequence was compared to the sequence data using a Pairwise BLAST analysis
( **[bl2seq](http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi)** ). The predicted DNA
sequence was entered as the Query and the data from the sequencing analysis
was entered as the Subject. The summary information at the top of the image
identifies how many bases are identical between the two sequences. Lines
joining the two sets of sequences indicate identical bases, and the absence of
a line indicates a difference between the two sequences.

For this sample, some differences are observed between the preicted sequence
and the sequencing data. There is a suggested mutation at bp 506 of the
Subject trace, but close inspection of the sequencing data shows that there is
some lack of clarity at that position. Further changes between the two sets of
sequences are due to "N's" in the sequencing dats, which is due to unresolved
data. Overall, the sequencing data looks reasonable but, to resolve the
inconsistencies, the sequencing analysis should be repeated.

  
[![BMCFP1.png](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b6/BMCFP1.png/800px-
BMCFP1.png)](/File:BMCFP1.png)
[![BMCFP2.png](/wiki/images/thumb/b/bf/BMCFP2.png/800px-
BMCFP2.png)](/File:BMCFP2.png)
[![BMCFP3.png](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a7/BMCFP3.png/800px-
BMCFP3.png)](/File:BMCFP3.png)

  

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BamHI site found at 101  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K774004)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

