---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K554002"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,collections, immune_regulation, devices] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554002)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554002:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554002:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K554002)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[13 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K554002)

[2 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K554002)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K554002)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K554002

Designed by: UNICAMP EMSE Brazil team   Group: iGEM11_Brazil-France
(2011-09-21)

HlyA secretion signal peptide

The HlyA is a signal peptide found in the C-terminal signal sequence of alpha-
hemolysin (HlyA). It is used to target proteins for secretion via the Type I
secretion pathway of gram-negative bacteria. Fusion of the HlyA signal peptide
to the target protein may result in transport of the protein from the
cytoplasm to the extracellular medium in a single step. HlyA, the signal
sequence, seems to interact with the cytoplasmic region of the pre-formed
HlyB–D complex. After the binding of the HlyA secretion signal by the HlyB–D
complex, HlyD induces the interaction with TolC. To be effective, only the
last 50-60 aminoacids of the C-terminal of Hly-A are required, so we can use
it as a fusion protein that is attached to the interleukins (such as IL-12 and
IL-10) and allows it to be secreted. Besides, HlyA is itself a weak antigen,
turning it harmeless to the immune responses we are trying to interfere with.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

### Usage and Biology

**You can see a representation of this device acting in the schema below:**
HlyB gene and product are shown as a symbolic cilinder in orange.

[![UNICAMP EMSE secretion device
schema.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/a/ad/UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_device_schema.jpg/700px-
UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_device_schema.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_device_schema.jpg)

**Representation of device 3, the protein secretion system, in a Jedi bacteria
that contains Device 1 (Adrenaline sensor/IL-12 producer). To export a
protein, the bacteria must have the HlyD, HlyB and TolC proteins and the
target protein must have a signal sequence (HlyA tail). In this case, the
target protein to be secreted is IL-12.**

A more realistic schema of ABC transport system is shown below:

[![UNICAMP EMSE secretion
ABC.jpg](/wiki/images/0/04/UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_ABC.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_secretion_ABC.jpg)

  

## MIT_MAHE 2020

**Biology**

The HlyA is a signal peptide found in the C-terminal signal sequence of alpha-
hemolysin (HlyA). It is used to target proteins for secretion via the Type I
secretion pathway of gram-negative bacteria. Fusion of the HlyA signal peptide
to the target protein may result in transport of the protein from the
cytoplasm to the extracellular medium in a single step. The molecular
functions of HlyA include adenylate cyclase activity, calcium ion binding as
well as toxin activity, while the biological functions include cytolysis and
pathogenesis. HlyA has been utilized to conduct nanopore sequencing of DNA. It
has also been used to form pores on cellular plasma membrane to deplete
cellular nucleotides (Kou Qin et al., 2011) (Kou Qin et al., 2008).

The structure of several hemolysins has been solved by X-ray crystallography
in the soluble and pore-forming conformations. For example, alpha-hemolysin of
Staphylococcus aureus forms a homo-heptameric β-barrel in biological membranes
(L. Song et al., 1996). The heptamer of α-hemolysin from Staphylococcus aureus
has a mushroom-like shape and measures up to 100 Å in diameter and 100 Å in
height. A membrane-spanning, solvent-accessible channel runs along the
sevenfold axis and ranges from 14 Å to 46 Å in diameter. On the exterior of
the 14-strand antiparallel β-barrel there is a hydrophobic belt approximately
30 Å in width that provides a surface complementary to the non-polar portion
of the lipid bilayer. The interfaces are composed of both salt-links and
hydrogen bonds, as well as hydrophobic interactions, and these contacts
provide a molecular stability for the heptamer in SDS solutions even up to
65°C (E. Gouaux, 1998).

Hemolysin is a potential virulence factor produced by microorganisms, which
can put a human's health at risk. A recent study showed that Alpha-hemolysin
from uropathogenic Escherichia coli produces extra-intestinal infections and
can cause cystitis, pyelonephritis and may result in permanent renal scarring
and failure (Changying Wang et al., 2020). Another example includes the
pneumonia produced by Staphylococcus aureus. In this case, it has been proven
that alpha-hemolysin takes part in inducing necrotic pulmonary injury by the
use of the NLRP3 inflammasome, which is responsible for inflammatory processes
and of pyroptosis (Chahnaz Kebaier et al., 2012).

## References

Song, L., Hobaugh, M. R., Shustak, C., Cheley, S., Bayley, H., & Gouaux, J. E.
(1996). Structure of staphylococcal alpha-hemolysin, a heptameric
transmembrane pore. Science (New York, N.Y.), 274(5294), 1859–1866.
<https://doi.org/10.1126/science.274.5294.1859>

Gouaux E. Alpha-Hemolysin from Staphylococcus aureus: an archetype of beta-
barrel, channel-forming toxins. J Struct Biol. 1998;121(2):110-22. doi:
10.1006/jsbi.1998.3959. PMID: 9615434.

Wang, C., Li, Q., Lv, J., Sun, X., Cao, Y., Yu, K., Miao, C., Zhang, Z. S.,
Yao, Z., & Wang, Q. (2020). Alpha-hemolysin of uropathogenic Escherichia coli
induces GM-CSF-mediated acute kidney injury. Mucosal immunology, 13(1), 22–33.
<https://doi.org/10.1038/s41385-019-0225-6>

Kebaier, C., Chamberland, R. R., Allen, I. C., Gao, X., Broglie, P. M., Hall,
J. D., Jania, C., Doerschuk, C. M., Tilley, S. L., & Duncan, J. A. (2012).
Staphylococcus aureus α-hemolysin mediates virulence in a murine model of
severe pneumonia through activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. The Journal of
infectious diseases, 205(5), 807–817. <https://doi.org/10.1093/infdis/jir846>

Qin, K., Dong, C., Wu, G., & Lambert, N. A. (2011). Inactive-state preassembly
of G(q)-coupled receptors and G(q) heterotrimers. Nature chemical biology,
7(10), 740–747. <https://doi.org/10.1038/nchembio.642>

Qin, K., Sethi, P. R., & Lambert, N. A. (2008). Abundance and stability of
complexes containing inactive G protein-coupled receptors and G proteins.
FASEB journal: official publication of the Federation of American Societies
for Experimental Biology, 22(8), 2920–2927.
<https://doi.org/10.1096/fj.08-105775>

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K554002)]

Categories

//collections/immune_regulation/devices

Parameters

None|

