---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K523013"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K523013)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K523013:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K523013:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K523013)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[2 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K523013)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K523013)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K523013

Designed by: Sylvia Ispasanie, Mun Ching Lee   Group: iGEM11_Edinburgh
(2011-09-05)

Plac + INP-EYFP

[![Edinburgh-INP-YFP-cells.jpg](/wiki/images/6/69/Edinburgh-INP-YFP-
cells.jpg)](/File:Edinburgh-INP-YFP-cells.jpg)

[](/File:Edinburgh-INP-YFP-cells.jpg "Enlarge")

Fusion of Ice Nucleation Protein (INP) and Enhanced Yellow Fluorescent Protein
(EYFP) under the control of the Lac promoter.

Constructed using the BioSandwich protocol of Edinburgh 2011.

### Usage and Biology

Cells expressing this construct are shown on the right. The cells fluoresce
yellow under blue light. The INP should carry the EYFP to the outer membrane
of _E. coli_. Our imaging technology was not good enough to confirm this, so
we attempted to prove it by other means...

  

#### Fractionation experiment

We (Edinburgh 2011) centrifuged cells expressing BBa_K523013 so that the
membrane fraction became localised to the bottom of the tube, and compared the
fluorescence pattern with a control where EYFP was not fused to INP.

[![523013-centrifuged.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/b/bb/523013-centrifuged.jpg/200px-523013-centrifuged.jpg)](/File:523013-centrifuged.jpg)
|  | [![523013-centrifuged-auto-
white.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/d/d6/523013-centrifuged-auto-
white.jpg/200px-523013-centrifuged-auto-white.jpg)](/File:523013-centrifuged-
auto-white.jpg)  
---|---|---  
Control on left. **INP-EYFP on right.** |  |  The same image passed through
GIMP's auto white balance filter.  
  
These results appear to indicate that the EYFP was successfully transported to
the outer membrane; this region is the main source of fluorescence in the INP-
EYFP tube. By contrast, the control tube has much more EYFP present in the
cytoplasm.

## More Characterization

Take a look at the experience part where you can find further
Characterisations done by the iGEM13_EPF_Lausanne Team.

# Improvement by BJRS_China 2018

Our project used surface display system, and we choose this part to construct
the INP-mediated surface display system for our interest protein. While
testing the surface display efficiency of this part, we found that the
fluorescence intensity was too weak both under the uv-light（adjusted to the
same OD600）(Fig.2, middle) and under the super resolution microscope(Fig.3,
middle).

To characterize the surface display efficiency of INP better, we added a
strong promoter [J23104](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_J23104) and RBS
[B0032](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_B0032) to the upstream of INP, and
changed the YFP to sfGFP, to construct our parts
[BBa_K2833009](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K2833009)(Fig.1).

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b5/T--BJRS_China--improvement009.png/500px-T--
BJRS_China--improvement009.png)](/File:T--BJRS_China--improvement009.png)

[](/File:T--BJRS_China--improvement009.png "Enlarge")

**Fig.1 the framework
of[BBa_K2833009](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K2833009)**

  
  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a3/T--BJRS_China--improvement1.jpg/400px-T--
BJRS_China--improvement1.jpg.png)](/File:T--BJRS_China--improvement1.jpg)

[](/File:T--BJRS_China--improvement1.jpg "Enlarge")

**Fig.2 the fluorescence of whole cell( _E.coli_ , DH5α) precipitation under
UV-light** A: intracellular expressing GFP bacteria; B: BBa_K523013
transformed bacteria; C:BBa_K2833009 transformed bacteria

  
  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/10/T--BJRS_China--improvement2.jpg/800px-T--
BJRS_China--improvement2.jpg.png)](/File:T--BJRS_China--improvement2.jpg)

[](/File:T--BJRS_China--improvement2.jpg "Enlarge")

**Fig.3 the super resolution microscopy of different fluorescent expressing
bacteria( _E.coli_ , DH5α) ** A: intracellular expressing GFP bacteria; B:
BBa_K523013 transformed bacteria; C:BBa_K2833009 transformed bacteria

  
  

We also conducted the cell lysis experiment to observe the distribution of
GFP(figure 4). We firstly adjusted the OD600 of all the interest overnight
cultured bacteria to 1.0 and then lysed the cells using Ultrasonic Cell
Disruptor. The results showed that after cell lysis followed by centrifuge,
both the precipitation and supernatant shows relative strong fluorescence
signal in intracellular expressing GFP bacteria(figure 4B, middle), while the
signal was stronger in supernatant than in precipitation in **BBa_K2833009**
transformed bacteria(figure 4B, right).To further confirm this result, we
removed the supernatant and observed that the signal in **BBa_K2833009**
transformed bacteria fragments was stronger than the GFP intracellular
expressed ones(figure 4C). This suggests that the surface displayed GFP were
anchored to the outer membrane and being precipitated with the cell fragment,
while the intracellular expressed GFP were solved in the supernatant.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a8/T--BJRS_China--009_fig1.jpg/700px-T--BJRS_China--
009_fig1.jpg.png)](/File:T--BJRS_China--009_fig1.jpg)

[](/File:T--BJRS_China--009_fig1.jpg "Enlarge")

**Fig.4 the fluorescence of intracellular expression of GFP and surface
display of GFP via INP before and after cell lysis.** A: before cell lysis; B:
after cell lysis

  
  

**Sequence and Features**

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal NgoMIV site found at 1036  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

# Sequencing by BIT-China 2019

The results of the sequencing were 99% similar to the given sequence, and we
believe that the lack of 1% similarity may be related to the unreliable
sequencing results at the initial position (within 50 bp). Sequencing shows
that the ratio of guanine and cytosine is about 55%.Because if the GC ratio of
genes is between 45% and 55%, the genes is suitable for PCR amplification, so
this part can be amplified well.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/2d/BIT-China_bronze_1.png/400px-BIT-
China_bronze_1.png)](/File:BIT-China_bronze_1.png)

[](/File:BIT-China_bronze_1.png "Enlarge")

**Fig.Sequencing results of K523013.**

  
  

Primer F: ttaatacgactcactatagggagaggagg

Primer R: ggctcaccttcgggtgggcctttctgcgtttata

  

  

### Functional Parameters

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/4/43/T--Austin_Utexas--
Low_significant_burden.png)

**Burden Value: 18.3 ± 8.8%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This part exhibited a significant burden. Users should be
aware that BioBricks with a burden of >20-30% may be susceptible to mutating
to become less functional or nonfunctional as an evolutionary consequence of
this fitness cost. This risk increases as they used for more bacterial cell
divisions or in larger cultures. Users should be especially careful when
combining multiple burdensome parts, as plasmids with a total burden of >40%
are expected to mutate so quickly that they become unclonable. Refer to any
one of the [BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods and other conclusions from a large-scale
measurement project conducted by the [2019 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas)

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K523013)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

