---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K731721"
author: Terminator
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K731721)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K731721:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K731721:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K731721)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[114 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K731721)

[23 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K731721)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K731721)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_terminator.png)

Terminator

# Part:BBa_K731721

Designed by: Giacomo Giacomelli, Anna Depetris   Group: iGEM12_TRENTO
(2012-08-15)

[![Terminator.png](/wiki/images/8/81/Terminator.png)](/File:Terminator.png)

| biology| T7 bacteriophage| direction| Forward| forward_efficiency|  0.915
+/- 0.008 with T7 promoter; 0.80 +/- 0.01 with Ptac

|

T7 terminator

  * wild type terminator from T7 bacteriophage.

The characterization of this part was done by the Trento iGEM team 2012 using
the new platforms for terminator characterization that they have built and
submitted to the Registry as [BBa_K731700](/Part:BBa_K731700 "Part:BBa
K731700") and [BBa_K731710](/Part:BBa_K731710 "Part:BBa K731710").  
  
---|---|---  
  
**Examples of Secondary Structures**

[![T7term 1.png](/wiki/images/7/7b/T7term_1.png)](/File:T7term_1.png)
[![T7term 2.png](/wiki/images/c/c0/T7term_2.png)](/File:T7term_2.png)

  

* * *

**Usage and biology**

We made some preliminary analyses to define the best procedure to characterize
this terminator using [BBa_K731700](/Part:BBa_K731700 "Part:BBa K731700") and
[BBa_K731710](/Part:BBa_K731710 "Part:BBa K731710"). We found that the
emission from mVenus was much stronger than the mCherry emission, resulting in
some spectral overlap. To improve the quality of the data, off-peak excitation
and emission wavelengths were identified that minimized the effect. Therefore,
mVenus was excitated at 485 nm (excitation peak is at 515 nm), and the
emission of mVenus was collected at its maximum position, i.e. 528 nm. The
maximum mCherry excitation wavelength was used (587 nm), but the emission of
mCherry was read at 615 nm, as opposed to the maximum at 609 nm. Here is a
summary of these wavelengths:

| Standard Excitation (nm)  | Standard Emission (nm)  | Modified Excitation
(nm)  | Modified Emission (nm)  
---|---|---|---|---  
mCherry  | 587  | 609  | 587  | 615  
mVenus  | 515  | 528  | 485  | 528  
  
_**TABLE 1.** **Standard and modified excitation and emission wavelengths**  
_

  
The activity of this part was analyzed both with T7 and _E. coli_ RNA
polymerases _in vivo_ and with T7 RNA polymerase _in vitro_. The activity of
this terminators was measured as the ratio between the two proteins' levels
using the equation found in literature for termination efficiency. Doing this
measurements, however, we realized that terminators can have an effect also on
mCherry expression, enhancing it. This effect was previously described Abe. As
a consequence of this unexpected outcome, we defined other two parameters that
are here summarized in addition to the literature definition of termination
efficiency.

The parameters used to analyze the data are:

apparent termination efficiency, calculated with the equation found in
literature Nojima,
[![FormulaEa.jpg](/wiki/images/2/29/FormulaEa.jpg)](/File:FormulaEa.jpg)

raw termination efficiency, that does not consider the mCherry contribution
[![FormulaEr.jpg](/wiki/images/9/9a/FormulaEr.jpg)](/File:FormulaEr.jpg)

relative increase in the upstream gene expression,
[![RIequation.png](/wiki/images/7/73/RIequation.png)](/File:RIequation.png)

  
where

- _Vs_ is the A206K Venus peak’s intensity of the construct with the terminator of interest inserted in the prefix-suffix linker 

- _Vc_ is the A206K Venus peak’s intensity of the control construct without intervening terminator 

- _Cs_ is the mCherry peak’s intensity of the construct with the terminator inserted 

- _Cc_ is the mCherry peak’s intensity of the control construct 

  
**_In vivo_ measurements:**

Our experiments exploited an _E. coli_ lysogen strain carrying T7 RNA
polymerase and lacIq. Additionally, the cells, i.e. _E. coli_ BL21(DE3) pLysS,
also contained a plasmid encoding T7 lysozyme and chloramphenicol resistance.
T7 lysozyme is a natural inhibitor of T7 RNA polymerase activity, thus
reducing background expression of the target genes. The T7 RNA polymerase is
behind a lacUV5 promoter.

  

[![T7terminatorinvivo.jpg](/wiki/images/2/2d/T7terminatorinvivo.jpg)](/File:T7terminatorinvivo.jpg)

  

[![T7terminatortabinvivo.jpg](/wiki/images/0/0c/T7terminatortabinvivo.jpg)](/File:T7terminatortabinvivo.jpg)

_**FIGURE 1.** **T7 bacteriophage terminator's effect on protein expression
with two different RNA polymerases**  
The data shown in figure 1 were acquired in two different days. For each day 4
different replicates were measured at different times. Briefly, BL21(DE3)pLysS
were grown in 10 mL of LB until an OD of 0.6 was reached and induced with 0.5
mM IPTG. After 3 hours of induction, 4 separate aliquots of 1 mL were taken
and sonicated 3 times for 10 seconds at intervals of 30 seconds. After
sonication the samples were diluted 1:2 with PBS 1X directly into a cuvette
and incubated overnight at 4°C. Fluorescence measurements were taken with a
Cary Eclipse Varian fluorimeter with a window ranging from 450 nm to 700 nm, a
slit of 5nm, a voltage of 570V for the characterization with T7 polymerase and
of 520V for the measurements with _E. coli_ RNA polymerase. _

  
It is worth to highlight that the apparent and the raw transcriptional
termination efficiencies, shown in figure 1, are essentially different from
both a mathematical and a biological point of view. More specifically, raw
termination efficiency is determined just by the expression of the downstream
gene, while the apparent termination efficiency represents the variations that
occur in the expression of both genes up- and down-stream of the terminator.
They are in the same chart just for a comparison purpose.

For more information about the protocol we adopted to take these _in vivo_
measurements, see [BBa K731700 and BBa K731710
measurements](/BBa_K731700_and_BBa_K731710_measurements "BBa K731700 and BBa
K731710 measurements").

  

**_In vitro_ measurements:**

  
We performed the in vitro analysis only with the T7 RNA polymerase.

[![T7terminatorinvitro.jpg](/wiki/images/f/f3/T7terminatorinvitro.jpg)](/File:T7terminatorinvitro.jpg)

[![T7terminatortabinvitro.jpg](/wiki/images/d/d8/T7terminatortabinvitro.jpg)](/File:T7terminatortabinvitro.jpg)

_**FIGURE 2.** **T7 bacteriophage terminator's effect on in vitro protein
synthesis with the T7 RNA polymerases**  
Cell free measurements were done with the PurExpress kit from New England
Biolabs, using 250 ng of DNA previously purified by ethanol precipitation,
following the protocol suggested by the manufacturer. Measurements were done
with a PTI fluorimeter using the same excitation and emission wavelengths used
for the in vivo measurements. Note that the in vivo data are the same shown
above; they are reported here to aid comparison. _

We submitted also this Part inside both [BBa_K731700](/Part:BBa_K731700
"Part:BBa K731700") (T7 promoter backbone) and [BBa_K731710](/Part:BBa_K731710
"Part:BBa K731710") ( _tac_ promoter backbone) as, respecitively,
[BBa_K731701](/Part:BBa_K731701 "Part:BBa K731701") and
[BBa_K731702](/Part:BBa_K731702 "Part:BBa K731702"). We hope that this could
be helpful for anyone who want to verify and further delve into our results.

More information about the procedure used, the results obtained and our
considerations can be found in the [Trento iGEM 2012 wiki
page](http://2012.igem.org/Team:UNITN-Trento%7C).

## References

<biblio>

  1. Nojima pmid=16379390
  2. Abe pmid=9150882

</biblio>

  

### Functional Parameters

biology| T7 bacteriophage| direction| Forward| forward_efficiency|  0.915 +/-
0.008 with T7 promoter; 0.80 +/- 0.01 with Ptac

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/4/43/T--Austin_Utexas--
Low_significant_burden.png)

**Burden Value: 14.8 ± 4.4%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This part exhibited a significant burden. Users should be
aware that BioBricks with a burden of >20-30% may be susceptible to mutating
to become less functional or nonfunctional as an evolutionary consequence of
this fitness cost. This risk increases as they used for more bacterial cell
divisions or in larger cultures. Users should be especially careful when
combining multiple burdensome parts, as plasmids with a total burden of >40%
are expected to mutate so quickly that they become unclonable. Refer to any
one of the [BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods and other conclusions from a large-scale
measurement project conducted by the [2019 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas)

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K731721)]

Categories

Parameters

| biology| T7 bacteriophage| direction| Forward| forward_efficiency|  0.915
+/- 0.008 with T7 promoter; 0.80 +/- 0.01 with Ptac

