---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K598001"
author: Reporter
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, ecoli, function, reporter, fluorescence, regulation, positive, rna, riboswitch, regulator] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K598001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K598001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K598001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K598001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K598001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)

Reporter

# Part:BBa_K598001

Designed by: Siyang HAO, Tong MU, Zheng LUO, Mengqi ZHANG   Group:
iGEM11_pku_riboclamp   (2011-09-27)

Theophylline Responsive Riboswitch 1G1 with Engineered RBS+GFP generator

This is a GFP generator regulated by theophylline responsive riboswitch. mRNA
with a theophylline riboswitch in it responds to theophylline concerntration,
producing different fluorescence strength of GFP. Regulated by different
promoters, it would be used to demonstrate theophylline responsive curve,
providing data for
[modeling](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Peking_R/Project/RNAToolkit).

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal XhoI site found at 71  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 730  

  

## Background

  

Riboswitches are structured non-coding RNA domains performing as genetic
control elements, regulating gene expression through ligand-RNA interactions
without assistance of proteins. Several natural riboswitches have been
reported, sensing small molecules including vitamin B1 and B12, FMN, SAM,
lysine, guanine, adenine, TPP and theophylline [1]. Various mechanisms are
utilized to regulate gene expression, ranging from transcription initiation to
translation attenuation.

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/0/0b/PekingR_parts_theo_Growth_curve.png/500px-
PekingR_parts_theo_Growth_curve.png)](/File:PekingR_parts_theo_Growth_curve.png)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_theo_Growth_curve.png "Enlarge")

**Figure.1 Growth curves of E.coli under treatments of different theophylline
concentrations.** Adding theophylline into the medium after incubating at 37
degrees in shaker for 8 hours, consistent with induce experiment. Under 10mM
theophylline concentration, there is negligible growth inhibition..

  

Theophylline responsive riboswitches have been widely studied in recent years.
Theophylline is a small molecule which is passable through bacterial
cytomembrane, but not an essential nutrient of bacteria. Although theophylline
has moderate toxicity leading to growth inhibition in logarithmic phase with
15mM theophylline in LB medium, this theophylline responsive riboswitch shows
an approving regulation curve under 10mM theophylline concentration with
negligible growth inhibition in M9 liquid medium (Fig.1).

  

## Experimental Data

  

**Parental 1G1**

  
We adopted the original theophylline responsive riboswitch, named Parental 1G1
(P1G1) in our project, designed by Beatrix Suess on Nucleic Acids Research, as
a candidate of our [RNA controller
toolbox](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Peking_R/Project/RNAToolkit). Stereo
representation of the three-dimensional structure of theophylline aptamer is
schematized in Fig.2.

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/80/PekingR_parts_theo1G1_3D.png/500px-
PekingR_parts_theo1G1_3D.png)](/File:PekingR_parts_theo1G1_3D.png)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_theo1G1_3D.png "Enlarge")

**Figure.2 Schematic of the theophylline aptamer structure.** Red:
theophylline; yellow: theophylline binding site.

  

  

  
Theophylline responsive riboswitch P1G1 integrates the theophylline aptamer
with a helical communication module based on a ligand–dependent one-nucleotide
slipping mechanism (Fig.3) [2]. This structural element lies at a position
just interfering with translation in the non ligand-binding form. Addition of
ligand shifts the inhibitory secondary structure element that is originally
closed to RBS to a distance that permits efficient translation. This slippage
mechanism regulating gene expression makes it different from natural
riboswtiches those are based on sequenstration or antitermination [3].

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/11/PekingR_parts_theo_PIG1_2D.jpg/500px-
PekingR_parts_theo_PIG1_2D.jpg)](/File:PekingR_parts_theo_PIG1_2D.jpg)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_theo_PIG1_2D.jpg "Enlarge")

**Figure.3 Predicted secondary structure of P1G1 in the absence and presence
of theophylline.** Theophylline aptamer is boxed. 1nt slipping mechanism is
shown in yellow. UGGA is shown in red as RBS sequence. AUG initiation codon is
in black.

  

  

  

  

  

  

GFP fluorescence intensity is measured to demonstrate the ability of P1G1
riboswitches to modulate downstream gene expression. GFP fluorescence
intensity is measured with increasing concentrations of theophylline(Fig.4).
P1G1 displays a 6-fold activation ratio of the absence to presence of 10mM
theophylline (Fig.5). Inspection of the highest translation rate reveals that
although high concentration of ligand fully motivates translation, the GFP
fluorescence intensity is still low, indicating relatively low translation
strength. However, we expect wider translation strength available for
theophylline riboswitch, thus the performance of P1G1 needs to be genetically
optimized.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/6/69/PekingR_parts_exp_data.jpg/450px-
PekingR_parts_exp_data.jpg)](/File:PekingR_parts_exp_data.jpg)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_exp_data.jpg "Enlarge")

**Figure.4 Dose responses of P1G1 riboswitch and 1G1 riboswitch.** (A) Photo
shows GFP fluorescence intensity induced by gradients of theophylline
concentration. The left most well denotes induction in the absence of
theophylline. GFP fluorescence intensity increases with the concentration of
theophylline. (B) Dose responsive curves of 1G1 and P1G1 with a theophylline
concentration gradient in the presence of arabinose. RBS sequences and
corresponding dG are also presented in the graph. Arrow indicates the global
increase of translation strength variation range. .

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/3/33/PekingR_parts_Fold-1G1%26P1G1.jpg/430px-
PekingR_parts_Fold-1G1%26P1G1.jpg)](/File:PekingR_parts_Fold-1G1%26P1G1.jpg)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_Fold-1G1%26P1G1.jpg "Enlarge")

**Figure.5** The ability of P1G1 and 1G1 to activate translation strength
under induction by a theophylline concentration gradient. .

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
**Engineered Theophylline riboswitch—Theo 1G1**

  

  

  

  

On account of the circumscribed property of RNA controllers, insertion of RNA
controller probably makes even the highest expression level lower than sole
RBS sequence upstream AUG start codon. Insertion of RNA controller could
expediently down-regulate downstream gene translation, but it is impossible to
up-regulate downstream gene translation rate exceeding that of sole RBS. A
strong RBS is thought to proportionally shift the modulating range/activation
ratio of RNA controllers without changing the width to a higher level, as they
are turned gradually from completely OFF state to fully ON state in the
presence of ligand.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/f/f8/PekingR_parts_theo_1G1_2D.jpg/400px-
PekingR_parts_theo_1G1_2D.jpg)](/File:PekingR_parts_theo_1G1_2D.jpg)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_theo_1G1_2D.jpg "Enlarge")

**Figure.6 Predicted secondary structure of 1G1 in the absence and presence of
theophylline.** Theophylline aptamer is boxed. 1nt slipping mechanism is shown
in yellow. UGGA is shown in red as RBS sequence. AUG start codon is in black.
.

Therefore, we optimized original RBS sequence of P1G1 to AGGAGGU, the
consensus RBS sequence predicted to initiate high rate of translation
according to the [RBS
calculator](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Peking_R/Project/RBSAutomatedDesign).
Simultaneously, as we positioned RNA controller 1G1 upstream of GFP coding
sequence by standard assembly, the spacing between RBS and AUG strat codon is
ACUAG (scar generated during standard assembly). The modification of RBS
sequence and spacing between RBS and AUG start codon had inappreciable
influence on the core secondary stem-loop structure of functional original
riboswitch P1G1 and almost preserves the quondam base-pairing region. Stem-
loop structure of 1G1 is schematized in Fig.6. 1G1 shares the same slipping
mechanism with P1G1.

  

Dose response curve is shown in Fig.5. 1G1 displays a 10-fold activation ratio
of the absence to presence of 10mM theophylline (Fig.5). However, under a
concentration of 5mM theophylline, 1G1 shares similar activation ratio with
P1G1, consistent with the prediction that alteration of RBS provides more
flexible absolute translation strength with a fixed regulative range.
Inspection of these two version of theophylline riboswitch reveals that 1G1
with the highest level of expression in the presence of theophylline not only
possesses a longer RBS sequence (AGGAGGU) than P1G1, but also a more optimal
spacing (5nt upstream to AUG start codon). Comparison of basal level of P1G1
and 1G1 suggests that 1G1 holds a more significant leakage in the absence of
theophylline than P1G1, coincident with the holistic high expression of 1G1.
According to our experiment data, engineered riboswitch possesses a more
optimal absolute translation rate range, consistent with the prediction that a
stronger RBS provides the RNA controller with a stronger regulation
capability.

  

## Further Application

  
Screening for well performing devices usually requires laborious, time-
consuming refinement cycles, especially in the case of information processing
devices. Utilizing the platform introduced this year ([Peking_R,
iGEM2011](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Peking_R/Project)), we aim at making
tuning devices fast, affordable and more predictable. To demonstrate the
versatility and validity of the platform, it was firstly applied to modulating
a genetic AND gate.

  

The AND gate we utilized was designed by Anderson and his colleagues and
consequently standardly redesigned by PKU_Beijing 09 team
([BBa_K228258](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K228258), Fig. 7A).

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/0/00/PekingR_parts_AG_plasmid%26mechanism.jpg/600px-
PekingR_parts_AG_plasmid%26mechanism.jpg)](/File:PekingR_parts_AG_plasmid%26mechanism.jpg)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_AG_plasmid%26mechanism.jpg "Enlarge")

**Figure 7: The construction and mechanism of AND gate.** A). The standardly
redesigned AND gate of PKU_Beijing 09 team. B). The topology and mechanism of
AND gate. Parts showing in box constitute the core processing module. .

  
Here are some of the results, for detailed description, please have a look at
[our soft-coding platform](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Peking_R/Project).

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/9/9b/PekingR_parts_Theo_P1G1_AG_pic.jpg/300px-
PekingR_parts_Theo_P1G1_AG_pic.jpg)](/File:PekingR_parts_Theo_P1G1_AG_pic.jpg)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_Theo_P1G1_AG_pic.jpg "Enlarge")

**AND gate regulated by P1G1** .

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b6/PekingR_parts_P1G1_AG.jpg/300px-
PekingR_parts_P1G1_AG.jpg)](/File:PekingR_parts_P1G1_AG.jpg)

[](/File:PekingR_parts_P1G1_AG.jpg "Enlarge")

**AND gate regulated by 1G1** .

Minor differences in RBS strength may largely influence the performance of
genetic program, consistent with the fact that tuning genetic circuits
requires laborious and refinement cycles, especially in the case of complex
systems. When applying our platform into optimizing genetic circuts, the soft-
coding of genetic program, with riboswitches' assistance, makes synthetic
biology fast, affordable and more predictable.

  

  

  

  

  
In summary, our semi-rational method to modify RNA controller (in our case,
theophylline riboswitch) offers a promising clue for optimizing the
performance of RBS-related riboswitches. The application of riboswitch
provides solid evidence that it contains various functional potential which
would be further exploited.

  

  

## References

[1]Nahvi,A., Sudarsan,N., Ebert,M.S., Zou,X., Brown,K.L. and Breaker ,R.R.
(2002) Genetic control by a metabolite binding mRNA. _Chem. Biol_., **9** ,
1043-1049.

[2]Beatrix Suess, Barbara Fink, Christian Berens, Régis Stentz and Wolfgang
Hillen. (2004) A theophylline responsive riboswitch based on helix slipping
controls gene expression in vivo. _Nucleic Acids Research_ , **32** ,
1610-1614.

[3]Sean A. Lynch, Shawn K. Desai, Hari Krishna Sajja, and Justin P. Gallivan.
(2006) A High-Throughput Screen for Synthetic Riboswitches Reveals Mechanistic
Insights into Their Function. _Chem. Biol_., **14** , 173-184.

  

## Related Parts

[BBa_K228258](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K228258) AND
gate of iGEM 09 PKU_Beijing

[BBa_K598005](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K598005)
Theophylline Responsive Riboswitch P1G1 with Native RBS

[BBa_K598006](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K598006)
Theophylline Responsive Riboswitch 1G1 with Engineered RBS

[BBa_K598007](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K598007)
Theophylline Responsive Riboswitch P1G1 with Native RBS+E0040+B0015

[BBa_K598009](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K598009)
pBAD+Theophylline Responsive Riboswitch P1G1 with Native RBS+E0040+B0015

[BBa_K598010](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K598010)
pBAD+Theophylline Responsive Riboswitch 1G1 with Engineered RBS+E0040+B0015

[BBa_K598027](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K598027) AND
gate (BBa_K228258) regulated by theophylline riboswitch P1G1 (BBa_K598005)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K598001)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/ecoli  
//function/reporter/fluorescence  
//regulation/positive  
//rna/riboswitch  
regulator

Parameters

chassis| E. coli DH5α| emit| 511 nm| excite| 501 nm| ligands| theophylline|
n/a| Theophylline Responsive Riboswitch 1G1 with Engineered RBS+GFP generator|
output| GFP| rbs| robust| resistance| Chloramphenicol

