---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K598010"
author: Device
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K598010)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K598010:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K598010:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K598010)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K598010)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_device.png)

Device

# Part:BBa_K598010

Designed by: Siyang HAO, Zhenrun ZHANG   Group: iGEM11_pku_riboclamp
(2011-09-27)

pBAD+Theophylline Responsive Riboswitch 1G1 with Engineered RBS+E0040+B0015

This is a measurement with a theophylline responsive riboswitch and reporter
gene, GFP. The mRNA with a theophylline riboswitch in it would respond to
theophylline concerntration, producing different amount of GFP measured by GFP
fluorescence intensity. In this part, the theophylline responsive riboswitch
contains an engineered ribosome binding site.

# Characterization 2019 by XJTLU2019

#### In this part of experiment, we repeated the experiments conducted by
Peking_R 2011 team. Characterized the part BBa_k598010. We focused on
investigating the following points in our measurement-relevant experiments:

-The cytotoxicity induced by theophylline to DE3 cells. 

-The absorbance of our cultured DE3 in different concentrations of theophylline in our experiments. 

-The fluorescence intensity measured that indicates the sensitivity of riboswitch to theophylline. 

## 1.The growth curve of DE3 in different concentrations of theophylline.

#### We used four gradients of TPP (0 mM, 0.1 mM, 1 mM and 10 mM) to test if
the addition of TPP may induce cytotoxicity to DE3, and influence the growth
of them. Each single colony of the DE3 cells transfected with circularized
pSB1A3 were cultured in 100 ul LB-0.1%Amp for 12.5 hours, the OD600 values
were measured in each 15 minutes. We chose 12 colonies in this experiment, the
cultured time was compared with the average calculated for the 12 colonies’
OD600. The growth curves of DE3 cells is displayed below:

[![M6.png](/wiki/images/thumb/c/cc/M6.png/600px-M6.png)](/File:M6.png)

[](/File:M6.png "Enlarge")

##### The growth curve indicates that the OD600 measured may be influenced by
the concentration of TPP, and the DE3 incubated with 1 mM TPP grows best and
the 10 mM TPP may significantly inhibit the growth of DE3 cells. But the
difference in OD600 was not that remarkable when the incubating time is
limited in 25000 seconds. Thus, we chose to culture the DE3 cells for 6 hours
in the following experiments.

## 2\. Measuring the fluorescence intensity of DE3 cells transformed with
standards and blank.

#### We repeated the Peking_R 2011 experiment and adapted their arrangement of
TPP gradients (0 mM without arabinose added, 0 mM, 0.1 mM, 0.3 mM, 1 mM, 3 mM,
5 mM, and 10 mM with 1 mM arabinose added). In addition, The absorbance
measured was used in normalize the fluorescence intensity measured to minimize
the interference caused by bacteria concentration, while the high number of
colonies grew in each well may lead a wrong over-high fluorescence result. The
absorbance is measured after the GFP fluorescence.

#### All the procedures were conducted under dark condition in a 96-well
plate. The distribution of the colonies cultured is displayed as below:

[![M2.png](/wiki/images/thumb/2/2a/M2.png/600px-M2.png)](/File:M2.png)

[](/File:M2.png "Enlarge")

[![Y200.png](/wiki/images/thumb/7/71/Y200.png/600px-Y200.png)](/File:Y200.png)

[](/File:Y200.png "Enlarge")

##### The GFP fluorescence values were measured, the excitation and emission
light was 485 nm and 535 nm respectively. To avoid the leakage of fluorescence
interfering the reading of other wells, the time interval of measurement was
extended to 20 ms. The exact GFP fluorescent intensity of each well is listed
below:

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/5/59/M1.png/600px-M1.png)](/File:M1.png)

[](/File:M1.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 1:** The dose responsive curves that manifesting GFP intensity
measured at 535 nm divided by OD600 comparing to the TPP concentration (0 mM,
0.1 mM, 0.3 mM, 1 mM, 3 mM, 5 mM, and 10 mM), the concentration of arabinose
in each well was controlled to be 1 mM. It can be shown that the GFP
fluorescence intensity increases along with the concentration of TPP as the
riboswitch was opened by the TPP.

[![YES.png](/wiki/images/thumb/6/6d/YES.png/600px-YES.png)](/File:YES.png)

[](/File:YES.png "Enlarge")

[![T--XJTLU-CHINA--CALI-OD-new.png](/wiki/images/thumb/4/41/T--XJTLU-CHINA--
CALI-OD-new.png/600px-T--XJTLU-CHINA--CALI-OD-new.png)](/File:T--XJTLU-CHINA--
CALI-OD-new.png)

[](/File:T--XJTLU-CHINA--CALI-OD-new.png "Enlarge")

[![](/wiki/images/7/74/M5.png)](/File:M5.png)

[](/File:M5.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 2:** The working curves that indicates the sensitivity of the
riboswitch designed to TPP. The activation ratio is fluorescence intensity
under given TPP concentrations compared to that of without TPP. The TPP
gradients were set as 0 mM, 0.1 mM, 0.3 mM, 1 mM, 3 mM, 5 mM, and 10 mM, the
concentration of arabinose in each well was controlled to be 1 mM.

  

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

Illegal NheI site found at 125  

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BamHI site found at 65  
Illegal XhoI site found at 209  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 868  

  

**For the full characterisation of the device, please refer
to[BBa_K598001](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K598001)**

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K598010)]

Categories

Parameters

chassis| E. coli DH5α| ligands| theophylline| n/a| pBAD+Theophylline
Responsive Riboswitch 1G1 with Engineered RBS+E0040+B0015| rbs| robust|
resistance| Chloramphenicol

