---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K934022"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K934022)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K934022:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K934022:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K934022)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[1 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K934022)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K934022)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K934022

Designed by: Toshiki Hashimoto   Group: iGEM12_Tokyo_Tech   (2012-09-16)

Plux-LasI

We constructed this part by combining
[BBa_R0062](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_R0062) and
[BBa_K081016](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K081016). This part produces LasI
enzyme in the presence of LuxR-3OC6HSL complex.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a2/Plux-LasI_result.png/500px-Plux-
LasI_result.png)](/File:Plux-LasI_result.png)

[](/File:Plux-LasI_result.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 1 This work was done by Mai Miura, Xinran Tao and Shiyue Liu.

To characterize Plux-LasI (BBa_K934022), we introduced Plux-LasI pSB3K3 with
Ptet-LuxR ([BBa_S03119](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_S03119)) on pSB6A1 to
_E.coli_ as “3OC6HSL dependent 3OC12HSL producer cell”. In this _E.coli_ ,
constitutively expressed LuxR activates the expression of LasI in the presence
of 3OC6HSL. We then introduced Ptrc-LasR and Plas-GFP
([BBa_K649001](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K649001)) to _E.coli_ as a “Las
reporter cell”.

The supernatants of the cultures of Plux-LasI cell were used as the inducer in
the reporter assay.

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/e/e5/Las_reporter_assay.png/500px-
Las_reporter_assay.png)](/File:Las_reporter_assay.png)

[](/File:Las_reporter_assay.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 2

Fig. 1 shows fluorescence intensities by Las reporter cells dependent on
different conditions. Only when the supernatant of condition B was used, the
fluorescence intensity of the Las reporter cell increased, while the
supernatants of other three conditions did not affect. Comparing the results
of the condition A and B, it can be said that with the induction of 3OC6HSL to
Plux-LasI cell, the fluorescence intensity of the Las reporter cell increased
by 20-folds. This result indicates that Plux-LasI cell produced 3OC12HSL in
response to 3OC6HSL induction by the function of Plux-LasI (BBa_934022).From
this experiment, we confirmed that a new part Plux-LasI (BBa_K934022) worked
accurately.

**By using Plux-LasI (BBa_K934022), we also accomplished a positive feedback
system with our improved part Plux-
LasI([BBa_K934012](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K934012)).**

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/2d/Timedependent.png/800px-
Timedependent.png)](/File:Timedependent.png)

[](/File:Timedependent.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 3 This work was done by Mai Miura.

As compared red solid line with blue dotted line in the condition i (both
Plux-LasI cell and Plas-LuxI cell coexist), the Fig. 3 shows that the
fluorescence intensity of Las reporter increases at first (0-1h), and then
that of Lux reporter starts to increase (1-2h). This result indicates that the
3OC12HSL production in Plux-LasI cell was activated by initially added
3OC6HSL, whereas the 3OC6HSL production in Plas-LuxI cell was not activated
till 3OC12HSL production in Plux-LasI cell reached sufficient level. This
behavior strongly suggests the appearance of the positive feedback.

For more information, see [our work in Tokyo_Tech 2012
wiki](http://2012.igem.org/Team:Tokyo_Tech/Project).

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 745  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal AgeI site found at 307  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K934022)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

