---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K541505"
author: Generator
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, bsubtilis, chassis, prokaryote, ecoli] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541505)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541505:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541505:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K541505)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[2 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K541505)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K541505)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_generator.png)

Generator

# Part:BBa_K541505

Designed by: Fazilet Guler   Group: iGEM11_FAGEM   (2011-07-19)

limulus anti-LPS factor (LALF)

Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), or endotoxin, is the major mediator of septic shock,
a serious complication of Gram-negative bacterial infections in humans.
Molecules that bind LPS and neutralize its biological effects or enhance its
clearance could have important clinical applications. Limulus anti-LPS factor
(LALF) binds LPS tightly, and, in animal models, reduces mortality when
administered before or after LPS challenge or bacterial infection. The wedge-
shaped molecule has a striking charge distribution and amphipathicity that
suggest how it can insert into membranes. The binding site for LPS probably
involves an extended amphipathic loop, and it has been proposed that two
mammalian LPS-binding proteins will have a similar loop. The amphipathic loop
structure may be used in the design of molecules with therapeutic properties
against septic shock.

We used this Biobrick in our device K541515. For further experiments, please
look `[Experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K541505:Experience)`

  

[![Dene1.jpg](/wiki/images/9/90/Dene1.jpg)](/File:Dene1.jpg)

Plates B2 and B1 (Respectively)

  
Plate B1); We spreaded B. Subtilis with LALF over a normal lb medium. We put
E. Coli as a single point while the Bacillus spread is fresh. We aimed to see
if B. Subtilis could kill E. Coli without forming a biofilm.

Plate B2); We prepared this plate as a control plate of Plate C. For this we
prepared the same contrivance with only B Subtilis that doesn’t produce LALF
protein or doesn’t have antibiotic resistance in order to be sure that if the
EColi of the plate B1 does not grow the reason for this is LALF protein.

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K541505 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 2.5 ± 7.5%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K541505)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/bsubtilis  
//chassis/prokaryote/ecoli

Parameters

None|

