---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K774007"
author: Reporter
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774007)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774007:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K774007:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K774007)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K774007)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)

Reporter

MB-RFP

# Part:BBa_K774007

Designed by: NRP-UEA-Norwich   Group: iGEM12_NRP_UEA-Norwich   (2012-09-19)

Mammalian-Bacterial promoter with RFP reporter: CArG promoter sequence +
BBaK216005 + BBa_K08101

Our hybrid promoter hopes to add to the systems already in the registry by
creating a hybrid promoter that combines the bacterial promoter PyeaR and the
mammalian CArG element , in the orientation mammalian to bacterial, both of
which respond to exogenous nitrogenous species. Combining the two would allow
a more modular NO sensor that can be used in mammalian and bacterial cells
interchangeably. The hybrid promoter has been attached to the reporter: Red
Fluorescent Protein (RFP). The hybrid promoter has been characterised by
observing expression of flourescent protein, and found to have increased
transcription in response to increasing concentrations of potassium nitrate.

_E. coli_ containing this part were then grown in media at 0 mM, 5 mM, 10 mM,
15 mM and 20 mM potassium nitrate concentrations over night before being
lysed. The lysed product was then run through a fluorometer in order to gain
data of the intensity of expression at different concentrations of substrate.

**NOTE: All data for the fluorometer has had the equivalent 0 mM reading
subtracted from it in order to nulify the affects of light scattering due to
cell debris**  
  
[![MB-RFP Graph.png](/wiki/images/b/bf/MB-RFP_Graph.png)](/File:MB-
RFP_Graph.png)  
  
The graph above shows the flourescence measured from the expression of RFP due
to the response of the mammalian-bacterial promoter to different
concentrations of potassium nitrate. The wavelength reading which corresponds
to RFP is between 600-650nm. The graph clearly demonstrates that between 0mN
and 15mM there is a proportional relationship between fluorescence intensity
and potassium nitrate concentration. It has been found that for all BioBricks
apart from the mammalian-bacterial promoter ligated to eCFP at a 20mM
concentration the intensity of fluorescence sharply decreases. This may be due
to the cell overexpressing eCFP up to the point at which the excess protein
begins to form inclusion bodies which can no longer fluoresce; alternatively,
this could be due the potassium nitrate concentration reaching the critical
concentration at which it becomes toxic to the cell. This data differs to the
readings taken from the bacterial-mammalian ligated to eCFP, as well as the
hybrid promoters to RFP, which may suggest there is a difference in the
molecular mechanisms that these promoters function by; however at this point
the change in intensity at 20mM is inconclusive and is an area which we would
like to look into further.  
  
[![RFP Comparison
Graph.png](/wiki/images/6/6d/RFP_Comparison_Graph.png)](/File:RFP_Comparison_Graph.png)  
  
We were initially unsure of the effect that the orientation of the bacterial
(PyeaR) and the mammalian (CaRG) genes would have in gene expression,
therefore we synthesised two hybrid promoters in the orientation bacterial-
mammalian and mammalian-bacterial. The graph above compares the intensity of
fluorescence of the two hybrid promoters (BBa_K774007 and BBa_K774005) ligated
to RFP. There appears to be no pattern if the difference between the
intensities of these two promoters; however both promoters do show a decrease
in intensity at 20mM potassium nitrate and decrease from a maximum intensity
of 82a.u. (bacterial-mammalian) and 66a.u. to approximately 36a.u.

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BamHI site found at 91  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal AgeI site found at 792  
Illegal AgeI site found at 904  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K774007)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

