---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K864100"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,cds, reporter, yfp, collections, chromoprotein, uppsala, function, reporter, fluorescence] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K864100)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K864100:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K864100:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K864100)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[8 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K864100)

[1 Twin](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K864100)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K864100)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

SYFP2

# Part:BBa_K864100

Designed by: Erik Gullberg   Group: iGEM12_Uppsala   (2012-09-24)

Super Yellow Fluorescent Protein 2 (SYFP2)

This part codes for the bright yellow fluorescent protein SYFP2. SYFP2 is a
GFP based monomeric protein with optimized folding, maturation and a narrow
fluorescence emission spectrum with a maximum of 515 nm. Bacteria expressing
SYFP2 are reported to be 12 times brighter than those expressing EYFP(Q69K)
and almost 2-fold brighter than bacteria expressing Venus (Kremer et al 2006).
Mutations compared to wtGFP amino acid sequence (GenBank Accession number
M62653) are F46L F64L S65G S72A M153T V163A S175G T203Y A206K. See the article
listed in references. The sequence has been codon optimized for expression in
E coli by DNA 2.0.

Kremers et al reported the following data:

Excitation peak: 515 nm. Emission peak: 527 nm. Relative brightness to
EYFP2(Q96K) in E coli: 12.0. Extinction Coefficient (M-1 cm-1): 101000.
Quantum Yield: 0.68.

### Usage and Biology

This part is useful as a reporter.

[![SYFP2 expression.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/3/37/SYFP2_expression.jpg/800px-
SYFP2_expression.jpg)](/File:SYFP2_expression.jpg)

**iGEM12_Uppsala_University**. Fluorescence on UV table. The images above show
_E coli_ constitutively expressing SYFP
[BBa_K864100](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K864100) using
promoters with different strengths.

  
**Team Warsaw 2013** designed sfYFP and compared it to SYFP2. Measurment was
conducted on pSB1A3 plasmid with J23100 promoter and B0034 RBS in living cells
in RF.

[![caption](/wiki/images/3/31/Sfyfpsyfp2wykres.jpg)](/File:Sfyfpsyfp2wykres.jpg
"caption")

_Fig 1. – Fluorescence of sfYFP and SYFP2 compared to sfGFP
([BBa_I746908](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_I746908))._

\-  |  Samples  |  Arithmetic mean  |  Standard deviation  
---|---|---|---  
sfGFP  | 100,60  | 100,37  | 99,02  | 100,00  | 0,85  
sfYFP  | 218,87  | 216,51  | 217,87  | 217,75  | 1,19  
SYFP2  | 424,70  | 418,26  | 412,40  | 418,45  | 6,15  
  
_Tab 1. – Fluorescence of sfYFP and SYFP2 compared to sfGFP
([BBa_I746908](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_I746908))._

### R9-SYFP2-H6 Improvement by iGEM UCopenhagen 2017

An improved version of the SYFP2 reporter with an N-terminal Cell-Penetrating
peptide (CPP) signal was constructed by the UCopenhagen 2017 iGEM Team. The
addition of the nona-argigine CPP tag was shown to give the SYFP2 biobrick the
ability stain both _E. coli_ and _P. putida_ cells, presumably by causing
internalisation. In addition the improved biobrick carries a C-terminal hexa-
histidine tag. For more information please visit the improved part [CPP-
SYFP2](/Part:BBa_K2455002 "Part:BBa K2455002").

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/44/Slack-imgs.png/700px-Slack-
imgs.png)](/File:Slack-imgs.png)

[](/File:Slack-imgs.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 3: Fluorescence of _E. coli_ cells treated with fluorescent
protein.** Cells were treated with either purified [mTag
BFP](/Part:BBa_K592100 "Part:BBa K592100") (A-B), [CPP-mTag
BFP](/Part:BBa_K2455005 "Part:BBa K2455005") (C-D), **SYFP2** (E-F), or [CPP-
SYFP2](/Part:BBa_K2455002 "Part:BBa K2455002") (G-H) for 10 min and before
being washed twice. Cells treated with CPP-tagged protein emitted noticeably
more fluorescence.

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/29/Pseudomonas_PP.jpg/700px-
Pseudomonas_PP.jpg)](/File:Pseudomonas_PP.jpg)

[](/File:Pseudomonas_PP.jpg "Enlarge")

**Figure 4: Fluorescence of _P. putida_ cells treated with fluorescent
protein.** Cells were treated with either purified [mTag
BFP](/Part:BBa_K592100 "Part:BBa K592100") (A-B), [CPP-mTag
BFP](/Part:BBa_K2455005 "Part:BBa K2455005") (C-D), **SYFP2** (E-F), or [CPP-
SYFP2](/Part:BBa_K2455002 "Part:BBa K2455002") (G-H) for 10 min before being
washed twice. Cells treated with CPP-tagged protein emitted noticeably more
fluorescence.

Author: [Jon Fugl](http://igem.org/User_Information.cgi?user_id=36712)

### SYFP2 Evolutionary Stability Improvement by Austin_UTexas 2019

The SYFP2 plasmid was redesigned by changing the sequence in order to remove
an IS10 hot spot identified by the 2015 Austin_UTexas iGEM team. The 2019
Austin_UTexas iGEM team measured the fluorescence of the redesigned plasmid in
TOP10 _E. coli_ cells over a period of 4 days. It was determined that
expression of the redesigned SYFP2 lasted for up to four days in culture while
the original SYFP2 plasmid lost expression within one day. For more
information please visit the part page for the [redesigned
plasmid](/Part:BBa_K3174008 "Part:BBa K3174008").

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1b/SYFP2redesignFigure1.png/430px-
SYFP2redesignFigure1.png)](/File:SYFP2redesignFigure1.png)

[](/File:SYFP2redesignFigure1.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 1: Fluorescence histograms for TOP10 cells with the original SYFP2
plasmid.** The x-axis shows the intensity of fluorescence on a logarithmic
scale, and the y-axis displays the number of cells. Each line represents a
different day of propagation, and the shaded gray curve is a blank. Peaks to
the right of the blank represent fluorescent cells while peaks on or to the
left of the blank represent cells that have ceased to be fluorescent. All
replicates were grown under the same conditions.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/26/SYFP2redesignFigure2.png/430px-
SYFP2redesignFigure2.png)](/File:SYFP2redesignFigure2.png)

[](/File:SYFP2redesignFigure2.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 2: Fluorescence histograms for TOP10 cells with the redesigned SYFP2
plasmid.** The x-axis shows the intensity of fluorescence on a logarithmic
scale, and the y-axis displays the number of cells. Each line represents a
different day of propagation, and the shaded gray curve is a blank. Peaks to
the right of the blank represent fluorescent cells while peaks on or to the
left of the blank represent cells that have ceased to be fluorescent. All
replicates were grown under the same conditions. No data could be collected
for Day 3 of Replicate 4.

Author: Alex MacAskill

### References

[[1]](http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/bi0516273) Kremers, G.-J., Goedhart,
J., van Munster, E. B., & Gadella, T. W. J. (2006). Cyan and yellow super
fluorescent proteins with improved brightness, protein folding, and FRET
Förster radius. Biochemistry, 45(21), 6570–6580. doi:10.1021/bi0516273

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K864100)]

Categories

//cds/reporter/yfp  
//collections/chromoprotein/uppsala  
//function/reporter/fluorescence

Parameters

chassis| Codon optimized for expression in E coli.| color| Yellow| emission|
527 nm| excitation| 515 nm

