---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K539119"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K539119)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K539119:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K539119:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K539119)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[3 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K539119)

[3 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K539119)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K539119)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K539119

Designed by: Yang, Yi-Pei   Group: iGEM11_NCTU_Taiwan   (2011-09-17)

crtY (lycopene cyclase)

[Toulouse_INSA-UPS 2020](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Toulouse_INSA-
UPS)contributed to the characterisation of this part by adding a new
documentation learned form literature on the expression and stability of CrtI.  
(\--[antonmykhailiuk](/wiki/index.php?title=User:Antonmykhailiuk&action=edit&redlink=1
"User:Antonmykhailiuk \(page does not exist\)") 19:10, 08 October 2020
(UTC+2))  

This is the coding sequence of crtY from Pantoea ananatis (formerly Erwinia
uredovora) (Accession number D90087). It encodes lycopene B-cyclase, part of
the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway, which converts lycopene to B-carotene
(Misawa, N., Nakagawa, N., Kobayashi, K., Yamano, S., Nakamura, K., and
Harashima, K. 1990. Elucidation of the Erwinia uredovora carotenoid
biosynthetic pathway by functional analysis of gene products expressed in
Escherichia coli. Journal of Bacteriology 172, 6704-612).

We found a point mutation of [BBa_K118008]
[[1]](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K118008)(iGEM08_Edinburgh) at SpeI site
that mutate into ACCTAGT. However, We corrected it
successfully(ACCTAGT->ACTAGT), and submited to igem.  
  
The following is the gel electrophoresis result of crtY
[Part:BBa_K118008](/Part:BBa_K118008 "Part:BBa K118008"). The sample included
are uncut plasmid, cut by EcoR1, Xba1, Spe1 and Pst1 respctivly.

  
  
![Crty_mutate-1.png](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/8/83/Crty_mutate-1.png)

  
We can see that the location of plasmid cut by Spe1 is the same as uncut
plasmid. We assumed that Spe1 site has mutated.  
After the Point Mutation, we correct the Spe1 site and the gel electrophoresis
result is shown below.

  
![Crty_mutate-2.2.png](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/c/cb/Crty_mutate-2.2.png)

### **Please refer to the Experience to surf more:[BBa_K118008:Experience
](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K118008:Experience)**

# Contribution from other teams

## Toulouse_INSA-UPS 2020's contribution

### _Characterisation_

Since the CrtI (phytoene desaturase) is a part of the biosynthesis pathway of
carotenoids (fig. 1), it is often co-expressed with the other enzymes of the
pathway: such as CrtB or CrtY. Rabeharindranto et al. analyzed the expression
of single domain CrtI, CrtY, and CrtB (fig.2). CrtB is unambiguously detected
as an intense bands in all strains B, B/I or Y/B/I. On the other hand, CrtI
can be observed at the expected size (67kDa) only when coexpressed with CrtY
domain (strain Y/B/I). The explanation could be that CrtI protein needs to be
co-expressed together with CrtY to have a normal production/stability. A faint
band with 50kDa migration pattern could be observed in B/I strain which could
further support the idea of low production or stability of CrtI in absence of
CrtY.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1b/K3570011-1.png/500px-K3570011-1.png)](/File:K3570011-1.png)

[](/File:K3570011-1.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 1: From Rabeharindranto et al. 2019. Presumed biosynthetic pathway for
the synthesis of β-carotene in X. dendrorhous (Verdoes et al., 1999). The
bifunctional lycopene cyclase/phytoene synthase (CrtYB) enzyme is depicted in
orange, the phytoene desaturase enzyme (CrtI) is depicted in red. Orange or
red boxes represent the localization of the modifications introduced by the
CrtYB or CrtI enzymes respectively.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1c/BBa_K2407309-1.png/300px-
BBa_K2407309-1.png)](/File:BBa_K2407309-1.png)

[](/File:BBa_K2407309-1.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 2: From Rabeharindranto et al. 2019. Expression of the different
constructs in crude extracts detected in western blots. For other details,
please refer to [1]

The second point concerns the presence of a natural fusion of CrtY (lycopene
cyclase) and CrtB(phytoene synthase). Although, in eucaryotes, CrtB enzyme is
predicted to be cytosolic and CrtY enzyme is predicted to be transmembrane
[2], surprisingly, there is a natural fusion between CrtY and CrtB which gives
CrtYB enzyme[3]. There is a strong opinion on the importance of this natural
fusion on the activity of phytoene synthase [4,5]. Rabeharindranto et al.
confirmed the impact of CrtY and CrtB splitting on the phytoene production as
it has significantly decreased (40 times) in the B strain compared to the
Y(yb)B strain (fig. 3).

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/7/71/BBa_K2407309.png/600px-
BBa_K2407309.png)](/File:BBa_K2407309.png)

[](/File:BBa_K2407309.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 3: From Rabeharindranto et al. 2019. Quantification of carotenoids from
the strains bearing single domains enzymes. Major carotenoids were quantified
from strains expressing single domain enzymes (B, B/I, B/I/Y) and are compared
to data obtained for strain Y(yb)B (left side) or Y(yb)B/I (right side).
Metabolites are colored according to the legend in the right. The metabolic
pathway from phytoene to carotene is depicted at the top with the same color
code as previously, white squares correspond to intermediate metabolites that
were not detected. Values represent the average ± S.D. of the quantification
of each metabolite with three independent cultures. For other details, please
refer to [1]

  

### _References for Toulouse_INSA-UPS 2020's contribution_

  * [1]Rabeharindranto, H., Castaño-Cerezo, S., Lautier, T., Garcia-Alles, L. F., Treitz, C., Tholey, A., & Truan, G. (2019). Enzyme-fusion strategies for redirecting and improving carotenoid synthesis in S. cerevisiae. Metabolic Engineering Communications, 8, e00086. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mec.2019.e00086>
  * [2]Schaub, P., Yu, Q., Gemmecker, S., Poussin-Courmontagne, P., Mailliot, J., McEwen, A.G., et al., 2012. On the structure and function of the phytoene desaturase CRTI from Pantoea ananatis, a membrane-peripheral and FAD-dependent oxidase/isomerase. PLoS One 7, e39550. <http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0039550>
  * [3]Verdoes, J.C., Krubasik, P., Sandmann, G., Van Ooyen, A.J.J., 1999. Isolation and functional characterisation of a novel type of carotenoid biosynthetic gene from Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous. Mol. Gen. Genet. MGG 262, 453–461.
  * [4]Niklitschek, M., Alcaíno, J., Barahona, S., Sepúlveda, D., Lozano, C., Carmona, M., et al., 2008. Genomic organization of the structural genes controlling the astaxanthin biosynthesis pathway of Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous. Biol. Res. 41, 93–108. <http://dx.doi.org/10.4067/S0716-97602008000100011>.
  * [5]Xie, W., Lv, X., Ye, L., Zhou, P., Yu, H., 2015a. Construction of lycopene-overproducing

Saccharomyces cerevisiae by combining directed evolution and metabolic
engineering. Metab. Eng. 30, 69–78.
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ymben.2015.04.009>.

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K539119 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 0.1 ± 3.5%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K539119)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

