---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K538004"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,function, regulation, transcriptional] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K538004)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K538004:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K538004:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K538004)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[3 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K538004)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K538004)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

CspC

# Part:BBa_K538004

Designed by: Bas Stringer (Sequence by Paul van Dieken)   Group:
iGEM11_Amsterdam   (2011-09-08)

### CspC ( _Polaribacter irgensii_ )

[![](/wiki/images/3/3b/Csp_graph.jpg)](/File:Csp_graph.jpg)

Figure 1: Freeze/thaw cycle survival rate of _E. coli_ containing an empty
vector (black circles), a vector carrying _P. irgensii_ 's _CspA_ gene (white
circles), and a vector carrying _P. irgensii_ 's _CspC_ gene (white
triangles). **Adapted from Uh _et al._ (2010)**

This BioBrick encodes the _CspC_ protein of the Arctic cryophile _Polaribacter
irgensii_. It's homologous to _E. coli_ 's cold-induced RNA chaperones _CspA_
and _CspD_ , and highly similar to _P. irgensii'_ s _CspA_
([BBa_K538003](/Part:BBa_K538003 "Part:BBa K538003")). A demonstration of
_CspC_ 's ability to increase the cold resistance of _E. coli_ was published
by Uh _et al._ , who managed to increase the freeze/thaw cycle survival rate
of _E. coli_ more than five-fold by overexpressing this protein. (Figure 1)

  

### Usage

This brick was developed by team [Amsterdam
2011](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Amsterdam) to create cold resistance
BioBricks, or CryoBricks. Because of the high similarity between the
_Polaribacter irgensii'_ s _CspA_ and _CspC_ genes, it's expected they can be
used interchangeably.

At the time of this writing, there are four protein generators incorporating
either [BBa_K538003](/Part:BBa_K538003 "Part:BBa K538003") or **K538004**.
Each of them comprises a promoter, an RBS and a coding region, but no
terminator. The RBS is, in each of the four generators, the strongest of the
Community Collection of RBSes: [BBa_B0034](/Part:BBa_B0034 "Part:BBa B0034").
The promoter is either the Lac operon's pLacI promoter
([BBa_R0010](/Part:BBa_R0010 "Part:BBa R0010")) or the pBAD derived promoter
team [British Columbia 2009](http://2009.igem.org/Team:British_Columbia)
developed ([BBa_K206000](/Part:BBa_K206000 "Part:BBa K206000")). The codes of
the generators incorporating _CspA_ and _CspC_ are listed below.

  * [BBa_K538203](/Part:BBa_K538203 "Part:BBa K538203") \- _CspA_ under control of pLacI
  * [BBa_K538303](/Part:BBa_K538303 "Part:BBa K538303") \- _CspA_ under control of pBAD
  * [BBa_K538204](/Part:BBa_K538204 "Part:BBa K538204") \- _CspC_ under control of pLacI
  * [BBa_K538304](/Part:BBa_K538304 "Part:BBa K538304") \- _CspC_ under control of pBAD

  
For an up to date list of other BioBricks incorporating the _CspA_ or _CspC_
genes, refer to their respective related parts pages:

  * [BBa_K538003](/Part:BBa_K538003 "Part:BBa K538003")'s [related parts](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/related.cgi?part=BBa_K538003)
  * **BBa_K538004** 's [related parts](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/related.cgi?part=BBa_K538004)

  

### Biology

While exposure to low temperatures represses the expression of most proteins,
cold shock protein (Csp) expression is actually induced by this. Jones and
Inouye showed _E. coli'_ s _CspA_ concentration can increase over 200-fold
within 1.5 hours, when exposed to cold
shock.[[1]](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-2958.1994.tb00359.x/pdf)
_CspA_ functions as an RNA
chaperone,[[2]](http://www.jbc.org/content/272/1/196.full) capable of melting
stable secundary structures in mRNA, and in doing so facilitating their
translation at low
temperatures.[[3]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC207108/pdf/jbacter00084-0044.pdf)[[4]](http://www.jbc.org/content/274/6/3407.full)
Its nucleic acid binding properties are mediated by a β-barrel structure,
which is known as the cold shock domain and is common to all cold shock
proteins whose structures have been clarified. In particular, two recurring
motifs - RNP1 and RNP2 - are essential for cold shock proteins' ability to
bind
RNA.[[5]](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-2958.1995.tb02431.x/abstract)

_E. coli_ 's genome comprises a family of 9 highly similar RNA chaperones (
_CspA_ through _CspI_ ), 4 of which are cold-
induced.[[6]](http://www.springerlink.com/content/jtnbcavcdpg3xey4.pdf)
Deletion of one, two or three of the cold-induced chaperones does not affect
cell viability at low temperatures, but a quadruple knock-out strain exhibits
a cold-sensitive phenotype. Xia, Ke and Inouye not only made and characterised
these knock-out strains, but went on to show the cold-sensitive phenotype can
be repressed by overexpressing any of the remaining members of the Csp family,
with the exception of
_CspD_.[[7]](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1046/j.1365-2958.2001.02372.x/pdf)
(Overexpressing _CspD_ did, however, increase the cold resistance of the wild-
type strain.) The apparent redundancy in the functioning of _E. coli_ 's cold
shock proteins suggests that they carry out a task which is key to cell
survival.

Uh _et al._ identified a blind spot in the scientific community's
understanding of cold shock proteins, stating the insights reported above are
based mainly on studies of mesophilic bacteria. To fill this gap, they
investigated a bacterium isolated from Arctic sea sediment ( _Polaribacter
irgensii_ ) and, following a homology-based selection procedure, cloned two of
its genes ( _CspA_ and _CspC_ ) into _E.
coli_.[[8]](http://www.springerlink.com/content/qr2q5722j0t78653.pdf) They
demonstrated expression of either of these genes can rescue the cold-sensitive
phenotype Xia, Ke and Inouye observed in their quadruple knock-out. In
addition to this, they show _P. irgensii_ 's cold shock proteins drastically
increase _E. coli_ 's ability to survive freeze/thaw cycles. (Figure 1)

  

### Characterisation

Taking all the above into account, team [Amsterdam
2011](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Amsterdam) considered _Polaribacter irgensii_
's cold shock proteins to be viable candidates for the development of their
cold resistance BioBricks, or CryoBricks. Unfortunately, the team wasn't able
to assemble a protein generator to express _CspA_
([BBa_K538003](/Part:BBa_K538003 "Part:BBa K538003")), but they **did**
assemble a _CspC_ generator ([BBa_K538204](/Part:BBa_K538204 "Part:BBa
K538204")).

Using this generator, it was attempted to reproduce Uh _et al._ 's results.
Quantitatively, the observed survival rates are a factor 2 or more apart, but
qualitatively, the data match. _E. coli_ comprising _CspC_ has a far greater
rate of survival between freeze/thaw cycles than _E. coli_ comprising an empty
vector.

In addition to reproducing the freeze/thaw cycle data, the _CspC_ generator
was used by its developers to see if expression of this chaperone influences
_E. coli_ 's specific growth rate at suboptimal temperatures. No significant
deviation from a wildtype _E. coli_ , or _E. coli_ comprising an empty vector
was observed.

Refer to the [experience](/Part:BBa_K538003:Experience "Part:BBa
K538003:Experience") page for quantitative data of the cold resistance
characterisation of [BBa_K538003](/Part:BBa_K538003 "Part:BBa K538003").

  

### Safety

There are risks involved with enhancing bacterial cold resistance and
facilitating their growth at low temperatures. Please refer to the [safety
page](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Amsterdam/Project/Safety) of this brick's
developers.

  

### References

  1. **Jones & Inouye** The cold shock response - a hot topic. _Mol. Microbiol. 11, 811-818_ (1994)
  2. **Jiang, Hou & Inouye** CspA, the major cold-shock protein of _Escherichia coli_ , is an RNA chaperone. _J. Biol. Chem. 272, 196-202_ (1997)
  3. **Jones, Krah, Tafuri & Wolffe** DNA gyrase, CS7.4, and the cold shock response in _Escherichia coli_. _J. Bacteriol. 174, 5798-5802_ (1992)
  4. **Schindler _et al._** The family of cold shock proteins of _Bacillus subtilis_ \- Stability and dynamics _in vitro_ and _in vivo_. _J. Biol. Chem. 274, 3407-3413_ (1999)
  5. **Schröder _et al._** Mutational analysis of the putative nucleic acid-binding surface of the cold-shock domain, CspB, revealed an essential role of aromatic and basic residues in binding of single-stranded DNA containing the Y-box motif. _Mol. Microbiol. 16, 699-708_ (1995)
  6. **Ermolenko & Makhatadze** Bacterial cold-shock proteins. _Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 59, 1902-1913_ (2002)
  7. **Xia, Ke & Inouye** Acquirement of cold-sensitivity by quadruple deletion of the cspA family and its supression by PNPase S1 domain in _Escherichia coli_. _Mol. Microbiol. 40, 179-188_ (2001)
  8. **Uh _et al._** Rescue of a Cold-Sensitive Mutant at Low Temperatures by Cold Shock Proteins from _Polaribcater irgensii_ KOPRI 22228 _J. Microbiol. 48, 798-802_ (2010)

  

### Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K538004 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: -0.3 ± 0.2%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K538004)]

Categories

//function/regulation/transcriptional

Parameters

family| Cold shock proteins| function| Chaperone| origin| Polaribacter
irgensii 23-P| target| RNA| uniprot| A4C1N9

