---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K517000"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517000)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517000:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517000:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K517000)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[5 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K517000)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K517000)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K517000

Designed by: Joe Ho   Group: iGEM11_British_Columbia   (2011-09-10)

GAL galactose-inducible yeast promoter

Promoter can be induced for gene expression when exposed to galactose in the
absence of glucose.

Reference: This promoter is commonly used in several yeast vectors including
the [Advanced Gateway Vectors](http://www.addgene.org/yeast-gateway/). A
review: D Lohr, P Venkov and J Zlatanova. 1995. Transcriptional regulation in
the yeast GAL gene family: a complex genetic network. The FASEB Journal, Vol
9, 777-787.

  

## Characterization by British Columbia iGEM 2011

The GPD promoter
([BBa_K517001](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K517001)) and GAL
promoter
([BBa_K517000](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K517000)) as
characterized by their regulation of the expression of a GFP reporter.

### FACS Analysis of GFP expression as regulated by GPD and GAL Promoters

[![](/wiki/images/a/a9/Ubcigem2011Promoterfacs.jpg)](/File:Ubcigem2011Promoterfacs.jpg)

**FACS Analysis of GFP expression as regulated by GPD and GAL Promoters:** _S.
cerevisiae_ yeast strains containing either the GPD-GFP or GAL-GFP construct
were cultured overnight at 30 degrees Celsius in either YPD (dextrose), SC-
raffinose or SC-galactose media. These were diluted 1 in 10 in their
respective media and grown for 3 hours at 30 degrees Celsius into log phase.
The cells were then spun down and samples were collected at 0 hours. The
remaining cells were resuspended in SC-galactose media and left to grow at 30
degrees Celsius for 2 hours. The cells were spun down again and samples were
collected at this 2 hour time point. The samples were fixed in
paraformaldehyde and sonicated before running them through the FACS machine to
determine the GFP expression profiles of each strain at each time point. Each
profile was plotted with y-axis as counts of cells and x-axis as amount of GFP
reading. The GPD-GFP strain's profile did not vary much over the course of the
induction regardless of the media it was originally cultured in. However, the
GAL-GFP strain experienced a comparably notable shift in the numbers of cells
expressing higher levels of GFP when the strain was shifted into SC-galactose
media. This profile shift was stronger when the strain was originally cultured
in SC-raffinose instead of YPD (dextrose) media, which is expected since
dextrose is known to more strongly repress the GAL promoter.

### Fluorescence Analysis of GFP expression as regulated by GPD and GAL
Promoters

[![](/wiki/images/8/8e/Ubcigem2011Promoterimages0.jpg)](/File:Ubcigem2011Promoterimages0.jpg)

**Fluorescence Analysis of GFP expression as regulated by GPD and GAL
Promoters:** _S. cerevisiae_ yeast strains containing either the GPD-GFP or
GAL-GFP construct were cultured overnight at 30 degrees Celsius in either YPD
(dextrose), SC-raffinose or SC-galactose media. These were diluted 1 in 10 in
their respective media and grown for 3 hours at 30 degrees Celsius into log
phase. The cells were then spun down and samples were collected at 0 hours.
The remaining cells were resuspended in SC-galactose media and left to grow at
30 degrees Celsius for 2 hours. The cells were spun down again and samples
were collected that this 2 hour time point. The samples were fixed in
paraformaldehyde and visualized under a fluorescence microscope under the GFP
and DIC settings. Acquired images were then color-combined with red
representing DIC and green representing GFP. Microscopy images show that the
GPD promoter results in constitutive high expression while the GAL promoter is
induced by the shift to galactose media.

  

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K517000)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

