---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K823011"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, ecoli, chassis, prokaryote, subtilis, promoter, anderson, regulation, constitutive, rnap, prokaryote, ecoli, sigma70] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823011)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823011:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823011:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K823011)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 10 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[5 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K823011)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K823011)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K823011

Designed by: Korinna Kraft   Group: iGEM12_LMU-Munich   (2012-09-08)

Anderson promoter J23114

Anderson promoter J23114 from the [Anderson
collection](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_J23100) without RFP in backbone
vector pSB1C3 to easily fuse the promoter with other reporters e.g. the _lux_
operon or the _lacZ_ reporter gene.  

### Usage and Biology

The first group of promoters evaluated are the promoters of the [Anderson
collection](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_J23100) ( _"Anderson promoters"_ ).
They have already been measured in _Escherichia coli_ where they all showed a
constitutive behavior with different strength. In this project, eleven
Anderson promoters were characterized in _B. subtilis_ with the _lux_ operon
as a reporter. In _B. subtilis_ these promoters show quiet low activity. To
confirm these results some Anderson promoters were also evaluated with the
reporter gene _lacZ_ by doing β-galactosidase assays. For more details visit
the [Data](http://2012.igem.org/Team:LMU-Munich/Data/Anderson) page of the
LMU-Munich Team 2012 or get an overview of our whole project [**Bead**
zillus](http://2012.igem.org/Team:LMU-Munich).

  
Here you can see the list with the Anderson promoters characterized in _B.
subtilis_ :

  * **J23100** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823004](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823004))
  * **J23101** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823005](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823005))
  * **J23102** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823006](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823006))
  * **J23103** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823007](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823007))
  * **J23106** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823008](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823008))
  * **J23107** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823009](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823009))
  * **J23113** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823010](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823010))
  * **J23114** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823011](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823011))
  * **J23115** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823012](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823012))
  * **J23117** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823013](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823013))
  * **J23118** ([BioBrick:BBa_K823014](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_K823014))

  
  

### Evaluation

Eleven of the nineteen promoters of the [**Anderson
collection**](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_J23100) (J23100, J23101, J23102,
J23103, J23106, J23107, J23113, J23114, J23115, J23117, J23118) were
evaluated. Therefore, we used the reporter vector pSB _Bs_ 3C- _luxABCDE_ from
the BioBrickBox containing the _lux_ operon as a reporter for promoter
activity. The promoter activity leads to the expression of the _lux_ operon
and to the production of the enzyme luciferase. The luminescence, which is
produced by the luciferase, can be measured with the plate reader _Synergy2_
(BioTek) ( **Fig.1** ).

|

[![J23114.png](/wiki/images/thumb/1/11/J23114.png/400px-J23114.png)](/File:J23114.png)  
  
---  
|

**Fig. 1: Luminescence measurement of Anderson promoters in the reporter
vector pSB _Bs_ 3C- _luxABCDE_**. OD600 (right), Lumi (middle) and Lumi per OD
_600_ (left) depending on the time (h) are shown for two different clones
(green/blue). Data derive from three independent experiments, so graph shows
the mean with the standard deviation. Curves were fitted over each other (t=0,
OD600=0,3) and smoothed by taking average of three neighboring values.  
  
---  
  
All clones show a usual growth behaviour. The activity of the promoters
increases during transition from log to stationary phase. The maximum (t=1h)
reaches from 200Lumi/OD600 (promoter J23115) to a maximum of 1500 Lumi/OD600
for the strongest promoter (J23101). Afterwards the activity goes down to the
beginning level (t=2h). The oscillation of luminescence (Lumi/OD600) in the
beginning of the curves are due to the small OD600 values and do not mean high
promoter activity. One clone of J23107 and J23114 shows significantly lower
promoter activity. Therefore, additional clones should be measured. In
comparison to all the other evaluated _Bacillus_ promoters, these Anderson
promoters showed a very low acitivity in _B. subtilis_.

  
  

### β-galactosidase assay

  

To evaluate the activity not only with the _lux_ reporter operon, four
promoters of the Anderson collection were cloned into the reporter vector pSB
_Bs_ 1C- _lacZ_ to do β-galactosidase assays and then to compare the results
of the strength of these promoters in _B. subtilis_ ( **Fig. 2** ). The
results were compared to the results from the luminescence measurements.

  

|

[![Beta gal anderson
promoter.png](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a0/Beta_gal_anderson_promoter.png/400px-
Beta_gal_anderson_promoter.png)](/File:Beta_gal_anderson_promoter.png)  
  
---  
|

**Fig. 2:** β-galactosidase assay (up) and growth curve (down) of the Anderson
promoters J23100, J23102, J23103, J23106 in _B. subtilis_. Results derive from
one experiment and are only shown for one _Bacillus_ clone.  
  
---  
  
  
Verification of the promoter activity by β-galactosidase assays revealed that
the Anderson promoters do not seem to be as weak as measured by luminescence
(Fig. 1). For direct comparison we should measure a constitutive promoter,
e.g. P _liaG_ , in the same experiment. But we think the luminescence
measurements are more reliable because they were repeated three times with two
independent clones.  
  
  

### Sequence and Features

This part is a modified BioBrick. We got the DNA from the Partsregistry,
removed RFP and send it in again in pSB1C3.

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

Illegal NheI site found at 7  
Illegal NheI site found at 30  

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K823011)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/ecoli  
//chassis/prokaryote/subtilis  
//promoter/anderson  
//regulation/constitutive  
//rnap/prokaryote/ecoli/sigma70

Parameters

None|

