---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K415023"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K415023)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K415023:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K415023:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K415023)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K415023)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K415023

Designed by: Andrew Yang   Group: iGEM10_MIT   (2010-07-24)

pLux-Lac:GFP:Term:Term:PluxR/cI-OR :mCherry:Term:PtetR:LuxR:Term:Plux/cI-
OR:LuxI

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/2e/023snip.png/300px-023snip.png)](/File:023snip.png)

[](/File:023snip.png "Enlarge")

[Part:BBa_K415300](/Part:BBa_K415300 "Part:BBa K415300") and BBa_K415023

This is a LuxR/LacO-regulated GFP, LuxR/cI-regulated mCherry with LuxR/cI-
regulated AHL amplification, TetR-regulated LuxR production. This part
displays red and green fluorescence under specific conditions. Fluorescence is
activated by presence of both LuxR and 3OC6HSL. The LuxR is normally
constitutively expressed, but can be repressed by TetR and derepressed by aTc.
Green fluorescence is repressed by LacI and red fluorescence and auto-
induction is repressed by CI.This composite is composed of the parts
[Part:BBa_K415021](/Part:BBa_K415021 "Part:BBa K415021") and
[Part:BBa_K415019](/Part:BBa_K415019 "Part:BBa K415019"). It can produce GFP,
luxR, mCherry, and luxI and is thus auto-inducing. The production of luxR is
normally constitutive, but can be repressed by TetR and derepressed by aTc.
The production of mCherry and luxI are activated by c6-AHL and luxR, and
repressed by cI. This part is intended to be used along with one of the
Collins' toggles, pTSMa, which has since been biobricked as
[Part:BBa_K415300](/Part:BBa_K415300 "Part:BBa K415300") from
Collins/Kobayashi UV Toggle (2004) or along with an improved low-power toggle
switch [Part:BBa_K415301](/Part:BBa_K415301 "Part:BBa K415301"), which
requires significantly less(10 times less) UV exposure for activation. The co-
transformation of [Part:BBa_K415301](/Part:BBa_K415301 "Part:BBa K415301")
with BBa_K415023 form a system for UV inducible precision pattern formation
with exposure times under a second. [Part:BBa_K415301](/Part:BBa_K415301
"Part:BBa K415301") is a bistable toggle (on or off state) and switching to
state 1 is induced by UV exposure and to state 2 is IPTG. If the toggle is set
with IPTG, the cells will express cI which will inhibit Plambda. If this is
exposed to certain levels of UV (see power modulations) cI is cleaved by Rec-A
(a UV induced enzyme) and lacI expression begins and inhibits Ptrc.

### Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 3716  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 747  

  
The following is the plasmid map of the part:

Figure 1

[![K415023
plasmid.png](/wiki/images/2/23/K415023_plasmid.png)](/File:K415023_plasmid.png)

  

## Images

The following are confocal microscope images of pTSMa/K415023 after varying UV
exposure levels.

The samples of pTSMa/K415023 co-transformed in JM2.300 cells were grown
overnight in 4ml of LB with 3 mM IPTG with Amp and Kan antibiotic in a 37C
incubator. Cells were then pelleted and washed twice, each time centrifuging
at 13000 rpm for 10 minutes. 400ul of cells are resuspended and embedded in of
4ml of M9 top agar with appropriate antibiotic in a mini petri dish. Cells,
once in the plates, were then incubated for an additional 3 hours at 30C.
Cells were then UV exposed at varying intensities and incubated for another 3
hours at 30C.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/47/UV_Exposure_funnel_plate.png/300px-
UV_Exposure_funnel_plate.png)](/File:UV_Exposure_funnel_plate.png)

[](/File:UV_Exposure_funnel_plate.png "Enlarge")

Experimental setup for UV exposure. Exposed pattern of star approximately 1
inch from opposite tips.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/e/e5/UV_stratalinker.png/300px-
UV_stratalinker.png)](/File:UV_stratalinker.png)

[](/File:UV_stratalinker.png "Enlarge")

Apparatus for UV exposure.

Figure 2: pTSMa/K415023. Varying UV Exposure Levels. Increases from bottom
right to top left, 0 to 80 J/m^2

[![K415023 Power
Mod.png](/wiki/images/thumb/8/8d/K415023_Power_Mod.png/500px-K415023_Power_Mod.png)](/File:K415023_Power_Mod.png)

  

Figure 3: Comparison of [Part:BBa_K415300](/Part:BBa_K415300 "Part:BBa
K415300") and [Part:BBa_K415301](/Part:BBa_K415301 "Part:BBa K415301") toggles
with BBa_K415023 reporter with varying UV exposure levels from 0 to 40 J/m^2

[![Powermod.png](/wiki/images/6/6c/Powermod.png)](/File:Powermod.png)

  

Figure 4: pTSMa/K415023. Settings set for mCherry detection. UV exposure of 80
J/m^2

[![K415023
red.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/d/dd/K415023_red.jpg/400px-K415023_red.jpg)](/File:K415023_red.jpg)

  

Figure 5: pTSMa/K415023. mCherry expressed in UV exposed regions. GFP
background. UV exposure of 80 J/m^2

[![K15023
pair.png](/wiki/images/thumb/6/63/K15023_pair.png/500px-K15023_pair.png)](/File:K15023_pair.png)

  

  

## FACS Data

The fluorescence of mCherry and GFP was then quantified using
FACs(Fluorescence-activated cell sorting). The samples of pTSMa/K415023 co-
transformed in JM2.300 cells were grown overnight in 4ml of LB with 3 mM IPTG
with Amp and Kan antibiotic in a 37C incubator. Cells were then pelleted and
washed twice, each time centrifuging at 13000 rpm for 10 minutes. 100ul of
cells are resuspended and added on top of 4ml of M9 top agar with appropriate
antibiotic in a mini petri dish. Cells were then UV exposed at varying
intensities. Afterwards, cells were pipetted up and regrown in 2ml of LB,
appropriate antibiotics. Plasmid pRCV3(Plux-GFP) and pINV5(pLacIQ->lacI;
pLac->GFP) were used as control to ensure adequate concentrations of AHL and
IPTG induction. The following graphs plot the percentage of cells that satisfy
a threshold of fluorescence of mCherry and GFP versus UV exposure. The
threshold was set just above the auto-fluorescence of dead cells. This was
done instead of simply plotting the mean fluorescence because of the bimodal
fluorescence distributions in many of the samples, likely a result of cell
death from UV exposure. Note that TSM stands for pTSMa
([Part:BBa_K415300](/Part:BBa_K415300 "Part:BBa K415300")) and that LPT
represents an improved toggle in comparison to its predecessor
[Part:BBa_K415300](/Part:BBa_K415300 "Part:BBa K415300") in that it requires
less UV power to switch states, thus killing fewer cells (see E.Coli death
curve). This plasmid differs genetically from
[Part:BBa_K415300](/Part:BBa_K415300 "Part:BBa K415300") in that its
inhibitory lambda cI protein is more sensitive to Rec-A cleavage. We got the
idea for hypersensitive cI from [this
paper](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC218967/pdf/jbacter00221-0157.pdf)
which calls for a single point mutation in the protein. By changing the
Glu233->Lys, we were able to create a toggle that is more sensitive to UV
induction. We accomplished this mutation through site directed mutagenesis.

[![](/wiki/images/c/cb/Sdm.png)](/File:Sdm.png)

The site directed mutagenesis that the 2010 MIT iGEM team performed on the
Collins toggle pTSMa in order to change it into a Low Power Toggle.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b8/Deathcurve.png/300px-
Deathcurve.png)](/File:Deathcurve.png)

[](/File:Deathcurve.png "Enlarge")

E.Coli population density as a function of UV exposure. Measured by drip
assay.

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  
Figure 6: % Cells satisfying threshold set for mCherry fluorescence.

[![K415023
mCherry.png](/wiki/images/2/23/K415023_mCherry.png)](/File:K415023_mCherry.png)

  

  
Figure 7: % Cells satisfying threshold for GFP fluorescence. Note that 069
represents [Part:BBa_K415069](/Part:BBa_K415069 "Part:BBa K415069"), an
improvement on BBa_K415023 by reducing the 'leakiness' of the R0065 promoter
in front of the luxI.

[![K415023 GFP.png](/wiki/images/9/94/K415023_GFP.png)](/File:K415023_GFP.png)

  
The curves demonstrate a high GFP background expression during the inoculation
stage with IPTG in culture, independent of UV radiation because of the slow
degradation period of the GFP([Part:BBa_E0040](/Part:BBa_E0040 "Part:BBa
E0040")). However, mCherry expression is directly correlated with UV exposure
levels. UV exposure triggers the E. coli SOS response, cleaving the cI
proteins and resulting in the anti-inhibition of auto-induction from luxI and
mCherry, both driven by the R0065 luxR-cI hybrid promoter.

  
Figure 8: pTSMa ([Part:BBa_K415300](/Part:BBa_K415300 "Part:BBa
K415300"))/K415023

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/80/P023_0.png/300px-P023_0.png)](/File:P023_0.png)

[](/File:P023_0.png "Enlarge")

0 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/4d/P023_3.png/300px-P023_3.png)](/File:P023_3.png)

[](/File:P023_3.png "Enlarge")

3 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/0/0e/P023_5.png/300px-P023_5.png)](/File:P023_5.png)

[](/File:P023_5.png "Enlarge")

5 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/7/7e/P023_10.png/300px-P023_10.png)](/File:P023_10.png)

[](/File:P023_10.png "Enlarge")

10 UV

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/0/04/P023_20.png/300px-P023_20.png)](/File:P023_20.png)

[](/File:P023_20.png "Enlarge")

20 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/46/P023_30.png/300px-P023_30.png)](/File:P023_30.png)

[](/File:P023_30.png "Enlarge")

30 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/27/P023_40.png/300px-P023_40.png)](/File:P023_40.png)

[](/File:P023_40.png "Enlarge")

40 UV

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Figure 9: pLPTa ([Part:BBa_K415301](/Part:BBa_K415301 "Part:BBa
K415301"))/K415023

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/82/L023_0.png/300px-L023_0.png)](/File:L023_0.png)

[](/File:L023_0.png "Enlarge")

0 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/d/d8/L023_3.png/300px-L023_3.png)](/File:L023_3.png)

[](/File:L023_3.png "Enlarge")

3 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/86/L023_5.png/300px-L023_5.png)](/File:L023_5.png)

[](/File:L023_5.png "Enlarge")

5 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/7/7d/L023_10.png/300px-L023_10.png)](/File:L023_10.png)

[](/File:L023_10.png "Enlarge")

10 UV

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/f/f2/L023_20.png/300px-L023_20.png)](/File:L023_20.png)

[](/File:L023_20.png "Enlarge")

20 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a8/L023_30.png/300px-L023_30.png)](/File:L023_30.png)

[](/File:L023_30.png "Enlarge")

30 UV

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/80/L023_40.png/300px-L023_40.png)](/File:L023_40.png)

[](/File:L023_40.png "Enlarge")

40 UV

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

## Modeling

[![Dynamical
Equations.png](/wiki/images/thumb/7/79/Dynamical_Equations.png/600px-
Dynamical_Equations.png)](/File:Dynamical_Equations.png)

  

  

The equations were then plugged into Mathematica to create a simulation of our
system.

Figure 10:

[![K415023
Animation.png](/wiki/images/thumb/2/2e/K415023_Animation.png/500px-K415023_Animation.png)](/File:K415023_Animation.png)

  

  

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K415023)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

