---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K546000"
author: Signalling
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,classic, signalling, receiver, function, biosynthesis, ahl, function, cellsignalling] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K546000)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K546000:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K546000:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K546000)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[13 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K546000)

[2 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K546000)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K546000)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_signalling.png)

Signalling

# Part:BBa_K546000

Designed by: M. Hesselman   Group: iGEM11_Wageningen_UR   (2011-09-14)

Lux pL controlled LuxR with lux pR autoinducing LuxI(lva tag)- AHL.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/d/dd/Visualization_LuxR_LuxI.png/520px-
Visualization_LuxR_LuxI.png)](/File:Visualization_LuxR_LuxI.png)

[](/File:Visualization_LuxR_LuxI.png "Enlarge")

A schematic representation of the BioBrick sub parts' interaction.

This device has two protein generators:

lux pl-RBS-C0062-B0015 produces LuxR. LuxR forms a complex with the quorum
sensing molecule AHL and this complex subsequently increases the
transcriptional rate of the lux pR promoter while also decreasing the
transcriptional rate of the lux pL promoter.

The quorum sensing molecule AHL is produced by LuxI which is under the control
of the lux pR promoter. In combination with LuxR, AHL thus increases the
production of AHL, a positive feedback loop.

  

### Experimental data

For determining the experimental data this part was combined with
[K546002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K546002), together
[K546005](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K546005). Fluorescence of a culture
with OD600 of 0.6 was monitored over time in a plate reader:

[![Fluorescence measurement BBa K546005-BBa
K546001.png](/wiki/images/7/76/Fluorescence_measurement_BBa_K546005-BBa_K546001.png)](/File:Fluorescence_measurement_BBa_K546005-BBa_K546001.png)

The GFP expression rapidly increases, indicating functionality of this part.
The formed AHL from LuxI forms a complex with LuxR and induces pR, that
controls GFP expression. As a result, a positive feedback loop is initiated.

### Further testing by team Wageningen UR 2016

We have improved the characterization of BBa_K546000 by testing it with a
reporter on a separate plasmid, something not done before. Up to now this
parts functioning had only been assessed when combined with another part into
one new biobrick (main page). Our characterization also spans a far longer
time than previous analyses and shows the dynamics of part BBa_K546000 during
bacterial growth. To provide future teams with an easy quorum sensing system
that reports activity itself, we created and submitted part BBa_K1913005 to
the registry.

We tested BBa_K546000 in pSB4K5 with a HSL reporter (BBa_K1913014) in pSB1C3.
_E. coli_ DH5alpha cells were transformed with both plasmids (cells containing
BBa_K546000 were used to make elctrocompetent cells, which were then
transformed with the reporter), these cells were tested overnight in BioTekâ€™s
SynergyMx plate reader overnight (figure 1, figure 2).

  
  

![T--Wageningen_UR--
2plasmid_quorum_sensing_graph.jpg](http://2016.igem.org/wiki/images/a/a1/T--
Wageningen_UR--2plasmid_quorum_sensing_graph.jpg)

Figure 1. Fluorescence (excitation: 480nm, emission 510nm, bandwidth: 9nm) and
absorbance data for E. coli quorum sensing strains. Error bars indicate
standard error of the mean. Continuous line: Fluorescence/OD600; Dashed line:
Absorbance at 600nm. Orange, Blue: separate biological repeats of the DH5alpha
strains containing the 2 plasmids (BBa_K546000 in pSB4K5 and BBa_K1913014 in
pSB1C3). Pink: reporter plasmid only strain. For both strains every value
displayed is the average of all (4) technical replicates. All
Fluorescence/OD600 data were normalized to the highest Fluorescence/OD600
value measured. After almost 12 hours, the fluorescence from the 2 plasmid
strains reached an overflow. Therefore no values after this point are
displayed. One biological repeat of the 2 plasmid strain experiment is not
shown to improve the clarity of the graph. For completeness, the complete
graph is shown underneath here.

  
  

![T--Wageningen_UR--
complete_QS_2plasmid_graph.jpg](http://2016.igem.org/wiki/images/9/9c/T--
Wageningen_UR--complete_QS_2plasmid_graph.jpg)

Figure 2. Fluorescence and absorbance data for E. coli quorum sensing strains.
Error bars indicate standard error of the mean. Continuous line:
Fluorescence/OD600; Dashed line: Absorbance at OD600. Orange, Blue, Green:
separate biological repeats of the DH5alpha strains containing the 2 plasmids
(BBa_K546000 in pSB4K5 and BBa_K1913014 in pSB1C3). Pink: reporter plasmid
only strain. For both strains every value displayed is the average of all (4)
technical replicates. All Fluorescence/OD600 data were normalized to the
highest Fluorescence/OD600 value measured. After almost 12 hours, the
fluorescence from the 2 plasmid strains reached an overflow. Therefore no
values after this point are displayed. One biological repeat (green) showed a
high variance between technical repeats in both OD600 and Fluorescence/OD600
values.

These data show that BBa_K546000 functions as expected. When HSL levels are
visualized with GFP activity, we see that when cell density (here measured as
OD600) increases, there is a sharp increase in HSL concentration in the cells.
Though a slight increase in fluorescence is also seen in the absence of the
quorum sensing genes from BBa_K546000, this increase does not compare to the
increase seen in the presence of the lux quorum sensing system. We therefore
highly recommend the use of BBa_K546000, possibly in conjunction with reporter
BBa_K1913014. In an attempt to streamline the use of these parts for future
team, we created BBa_K1913005, a composite part that includes both BBa_K546000
and BBa_K1913014. </p>

### Safety Aspects

There's a small note regarding the biosafety of this BioBrick composite part.
Upon release into the environment (this includes infection of a laboratory
worker) this BioBrick composite part might alter the pathogenicity of
pathogens that rely on quorum sensing to infect hosts. Pathogenic species that
might be involved can be found on the following external [biological safety
page](http://2011.igem.org/Team:Wageningen_UR/Safety/One#Risk_Identification_of_BioBrick_System_Inside_the_Cell_Chassis).

**Sequence and Features**

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 1821  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 1101  

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K546000)]

Categories

//classic/signalling/receiver  
//function/biosynthesis/ahl  
//function/cellsignalling

Parameters

control| (1) R0063 & (2) R0062| device_type| feedback| direction| Forward|
latency| Seconds| protein| (1) LuxR & (2) luxI-LVA| signalling_molecule|
3OC6HSL (AHL)| switch_point| (1) 2nM

