---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K861173"
author: Reporter
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K861173)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K861173:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K861173:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K861173)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[7 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K861173)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K861173)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)

Reporter

# Part:BBa_K861173

Designed by: Kuanwei Sheng, Xian Xia   Group: iGEM12_WHU-China   (2012-09-08)

mRFP generator controlled by PcstA (glucose-repressible promoter)

RFP is controlled by promoter PcstA, which can be activated by CRP-cAMP
complex. Therefore RFP will be expressed at low glucose concentration.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal AgeI site found at 712  
Illegal AgeI site found at 824  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

  

## Contents

  * 1 Vilnius-Lithuania 2019 iGEM team contribution
  * 2 **IISER Kolkata 2019**
    * 2.1 The Characterization of BBa_K381001
    * 2.2 Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

# Vilnius-Lithuania 2019 iGEM team contribution

Vilnius-Lithuania 2019 iGEM team contributed to the description of
Part:BBa_K861173 by measuring growth kinetics of bacteria containing this
construct in different conditions. Measuring systems dynamics has superior
precision compared to single-point measurements and leads to more
straightforward application of data to a mathematical model. In the case of
this part characterization, knowing the change in output by varying the
glucose concentration, allows the part to be used in controlling the protein
of interest level in the cell.

**Method**

For measurements, the iGEM community protocol suggests using LB media. From
our experience, a significant drawback is its considerable autofluorescence,
which restricts measurement precision, especially for low expression systems.
Also, performing measurements in M9 media allows more control in varying the
growth environment. For these reasons, we chose to use M9-CA media.

We measured growth kinetics with varying glucose (5%, 2%, 1% 0.4%, 0.1%,
0.01%, 0.001%) and glycerol (0.4%) concentrations by mass. The measurements
were done in a microplate reader, points were taken every 30 minutes for 14
hours.

Measurements were conducted at 37°C, E. coli DH5α strain, measurement volume –
100 μL. Two measurements for two different colonies were done.

R code was written for data analysis and visualization.

Full experimental protocol and microplate reader settings can be found
[here.](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/2/24/T--Vilnius-Lithuania--
Measurement-PDF.pdf)

Full R code can be found [here.](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/c/c0/T--
Vilnius-Lithuania--Measurement-R.pdf)

**The results**

A 9 fold difference was observed between bacteria, grown in M9-CA, containing
5% and 0% glucose. Also, a difference in output, when grown in glucose and
glycerol containing media can be seen, which can be explained by the
difference in by the metabolic pathways used by the tested cells.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/7/71/T--Vilnius-Lithuania--K861173.png/900px-T--
Vilnius-Lithuania--K861173.png)](/File:T--Vilnius-Lithuania--K861173.png)

[](/File:T--Vilnius-Lithuania--K861173.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 1.** The graph showing change in mRFP expression in time with
different glucose concentrations (5%, 2%, 1% 0.4%, 0.1%, 0.01%, 0.001%) and
glycerol (0.4%). A 9 fold difference can be seen between bacetria grown in 5%
and 0% glucose media. The measuring was conducted in 37°C, M9-CA media, E.
coli DH5α strain.

Vilnius-Lithuania 2019 iGEM team suggests future teams that choose this part
for characterization to measure kinetics with different carbon sources and
varying their concentrations.

# **IISER Kolkata 2019**

### The Characterization of BBa_K381001

BBa_K861173 has a mRFP controlled by PcstA which is a Glucose repressible
promoter. It has been shown by previous teams that with the increased
concentration of glucose there is a decrease in the activity of PcstA. Team
iGEM IISER Kolkata is trying to characterize what is the effect of increasing
concentration of other glucose analogues on the same system.

**Aim**

BBa_K861173 was used to characterize the promoter activity of PcstA in a range
of concentration of glucose and its analogues in the growth media.

**Method**

E. coli DH5α were transformed using re-suspended BBa_K861173 pSB1C3 plasmids
from iGEM 2019 distribution kit and selected using Chloramphenicol LB agar
plates.

  1. Single positive colony of BBa_I13522 was added to 10ml of LB media and left overnight at 37° C on 150 rpm in an incubator. Along with this, a positive control with non-transformed E coli cells was also kept in liquid culture in the similar conditions. 
  2. 200 µL of overnight culture was added to 10ml of M9 minimal media with different concentrations of sugars in individual test tubes. One control was kept in LB media. 
  3. It was kept in incubated for 8 hours at 37°C at 150 rpm. 
  4. At the end of 8 hours of incubation in the incubator, 100uL of the culture was added to each well of 96 well plate. The culture in LB was pelleted down and resuspended in equivalent amount of M9 media. 
  5. Varioskan LUX multimode reader was used to measure the GFP fluorescence: Excitation at 494 nm and emission at 525 nm. 
  6. Additionally, Shimazadu UV1900 was used to measure the OD at 600 nm to quantify the bacterial growth. 

**Result**

![T--IISER_Kolkata--glu_rep_1.png](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/c/cc/T--
IISER_Kolkata--glu_rep_1.png) OD at 600 nm for E coli transformed with
BBa_I13522 grown in range of concentrations (10 mM, 20mM, 30mM and 40mM) of
glucose and its analogues

![T--IISER_Kolkata--glu_rep_2.JPG](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/8/8f/T--
IISER_Kolkata--glu_rep_2.JPG)

Decrease in mRFP fluorescence with increase in concentration of glucose,
fructose and xylose. The data for rest three sugars viz. sucrose, maltose and
arabinose has not been shown as they show no clear co-relation of mRFP
production and sugar concentration

![T--IISER_Kolkata--glu_rep_3.JPG](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/e/ea/T--
IISER_Kolkata--glu_rep_3.JPG)

Comparison of mRFP fluorescence in M9 media supplemented with different sugar
source at 30mM concentration. Here the control contains untransformed DH5α
grown in LB media under a similar condition like that of test samples

**Conclusion**

As expected, there is a linear increase in the OD600 of the bacterial culture
with the increase in the concentration of sugar (except maltose) as seen in
figure 1. Moreover, we could also show a clear co-relation that with the
increase in concentration of glucose, fructose and xylose there is a decrease
in mRFP fluorescence. This signifies the fact that the PcstA promoter activity
decreases with the increase in concentration of glucose, fructose and xylose.

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K861173 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 3.1 ± 2.6%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K861173)]

Categories

Parameters

n/a| mRFP generator controlled by PcstA (glucose-repressible promoter)

