---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K592025"
author: Reporter
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,collections, chromoprotein, uppsala, function, reporter, color] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K592025)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K592025:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K592025:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K592025)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[14 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K592025)

[2 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K592025)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K592025)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)

Reporter

# Part:BBa_K592025

Designed by: Lei Sun   Group: iGEM11_Uppsala-Sweden   (2011-09-21)

B0034-amilCP

Purple-blue chromoprotein amilCP
([BBa_K592009](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592009)) with
B0034 RBS. One can add any promoter upstream of this gene.

This chromoprotein from the coral _Acropora millepora_ , amilCP, naturally
exhibits strong color when expressed. The protein has an absorbance maximum at
588 nm giving it a purple/blue color visible to the naked eye, thereby
requiring no instruments to observe. The strong color is readily observed in
both LB or agar culture, in less than 24 hours of incubation.

### Usage and Biology

This part is useful as a reporter.

[![AmilCP amilGFP
RFP.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/8/85/AmilCP_amilGFP_RFP.jpg/300px-
AmilCP_amilGFP_RFP.jpg)](/File:AmilCP_amilGFP_RFP.jpg) [![On cultures BYR
small.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a8/On_cultures_BYR_small.jpg/300px-
On_cultures_BYR_small.jpg)](/File:On_cultures_BYR_small.jpg) [![Pellets
BYR.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/d/d9/Pellets_BYR.jpg/300px-
Pellets_BYR.jpg)](/File:Pellets_BYR.jpg)

**iGEM11_Uppsala-Sweden:** Expression of chromoproteins. The images above show
_E coli_ constitutively expressing amilCP
[BBa_K592009](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592009) (blue),
amilGFP [BBa_K592010](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592010)
(yellow) and RFP
[BBa_E1010](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_E1010) (red).

[![UUChromo.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a4/UUChromo.jpg/600px-
UUChromo.jpg)](/File:UUChromo.jpg)

**iGEM12_Uppsala_University:** The Uppsala chromoprotein collection and RFP.
The image shows pellets of _E coli_ expressing chromoproteins eforRed
[BBa_K592012](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592012), RFP
[BBa_E1010](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_E1010), cjBlue
[BBa_K592011](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592011), aeBlue
[BBa_K864401](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K864401), amilGFP
[BBa_K592010](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592010) and
amilCP [BBa_K592009](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592009).

**iGEM16_CLSB-UK:** The consensus promoter [Part:BBa_J23119](/Part:BBa_J23119
"Part:BBa J23119") was assembled with this reporter protein. The construct
[Part:BBa_K2078002](/Part:BBa_K2078002 "Part:BBa K2078002") was carried on the
pSB1C3 plasmid for expression and amplification in E-Coli.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/29/Pellet_from_5ml_LB_broth_with_transformed_Ecoli.jpeg/200px-
Pellet_from_5ml_LB_broth_with_transformed_Ecoli.jpeg)](/File:Pellet_from_5ml_LB_broth_with_transformed_Ecoli.jpeg)

[](/File:Pellet_from_5ml_LB_broth_with_transformed_Ecoli.jpeg "Enlarge")

Pellet from 5ml LB broth

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/5/51/Ecoli_streak_plate_after_24_hours.jpeg/200px-
Ecoli_streak_plate_after_24_hours.jpeg)](/File:Ecoli_streak_plate_after_24_hours.jpeg)

[](/File:Ecoli_streak_plate_after_24_hours.jpeg "Enlarge")

Transformed E-Coli streak plate after 24hours

Expression of the part in Synechocystis 6803 was attempted but no colour could
be seen after successful transformation. We haven't done enough tests to
confirm if this was due to lack of expression (unlikely given the promoter was
a strong, constitutive promoter) or because natural pigments mask its colour.

**iGEM16_Glasgow:** This BioBrick part was ligated to P25, a native
_Streptococcus thermophilus_ promoter and transformed into S. thermophilus
using the shuttle vector pMG36ET. The expected blue colour was visible in _E.
coli_ when using the same BioBrick construct, though slightly less vibrant due
to the low copy number of the plasmid. However, in _S. thermophilus_ , no blue
colour was observed with transformant colonies. This suggests that amilCP is
not suitable as a reporter for this organism.

### References

[[1]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18648549) Alieva, N. O., et al. 2008.
_Diversity and evolution of coral fluorescent proteins._ PLoS One 3:e2680.

###

## CSMU_Taiwan 2020 Improve

Group: CSMU iGEM 2020  
Author: Huan-Jui Chang, Cheng-Ruei Yang, Hung-Yu Chen  

### Introduction

This year, CSMU wants to solve the problems revolving around diagnosing oral
cancer, and we decided to use toehold switches as our detection device.
Toehold switches are composed of 3 main parts: trigger binding site, ribosome
binding site, and a reporter gene. We wanted to find the most suitable
reporter gene which can be measured with ease. Therefore, we had tried
different kinds of reporter genes. Including mRFP which has been mentioned in
our [contribution](http://2020.igem.org/Team:CSMU_Taiwan/Contribution),
invertase which is our [new
part](https://2020.igem.org/Team:CSMU_Taiwan/Parts). We also had tried amilCP,
which is a blue chromoprotein that is visible to the naked eye. With our
improvement, amilCP's expression can be controlled, just like adding an on and
off switch. AmilCP would not be expressed without a specific trigger under the
regulation of toehold switches. By doing so, it could turn out to be a useful
diagnostic tool.

### Method

We followed the
[protocol](https://www.protocols.io/private/170B0BD515DE11EBAE360A58A9FEAC2A)
we created. We expressed three of them, the original part (
[BBa_K1087003](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3431049)), the toehold switch
with the trigger, and the toehold switch without the trigger in vitro
environment, using the cell-free PURExpress protein synthesis kits and
incubating them for six hours at 37°C.  
  

### Results

This is the graph that focuses at the sixth hour. It shows the results of our
experiments with the existing part and the improved part. The vertical axis
shows the relative absorbing wavelength at 588 mm. And the horizontal axis
represents the name of the three. The yellow bar represents the original part,
and the two bars on the right represent the improved part. The blue one refers
to the condition without trigger, while the green one refers to the condition
with the trigger. The expression of our improved part is lower than the
original ones. However, comparing the green one and the blue one, the green
one expressed better. The ON/OFF ratio is 1.44, which was much higher than 1.
Representing that there were significant differences between the ON state and
the OFF state. The result proved that amilCP with toehold switches could only
be triggered by a specific sequence, which also means the amilCP expression is
lower in the absence of the trigger.  

![](https://2020.igem.org/wiki/images/archive/9/9e/20201025012643%21T--
CSMU_Taiwan--improve.png)

  

### Conclusion

We successfully added the new function on amilCP. With our improvement,
AmilCP's expression can be controlled, just like adding an on and off switch.
AmilCP would not be expressed without a specific trigger. By doing so, it
could turn out to be a useful diagnostic tool.

### Reference

1\. Alieva, N. O., Konzen, K. A., Field, S. F., Meleshkevitch, E. A., Hunt, M.
E., Beltran-Ramirez, V., Miller, D. J., Wiedenmann, J., Salih, A., & Matz, M.
V. (2008). Diversity and evolution of coral fluorescent proteins. PloS one,
3(7), e2680. <https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0002680>

2\. Part: BBa_K1087003: <http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1087003>

3\. Part:BBa_K592025: <http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K592025>

4\. Pardee, K., Green, A. A., Takahashi, M. K., Braff, D., Lambert, G., Lee,
J. W., Ferrante, T., Ma, D., Donghia, N., Fan, M., Daringer, N. M., Bosch, I.,
Dudley, D. M., O'Connor, D. H., Gehrke, L., & Collins, J. J. (2016). Rapid,
Low-Cost Detection of Zika Virus Using Programmable Biomolecular Components.
Cell, 165(5), 1255–1266. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2016.04.059></p>

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K592025)]

Categories

//collections/chromoprotein/uppsala  
//function/reporter/color

Parameters

abs| 588 nm

