---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K516132"
author: Measurement
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K516132)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K516132:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K516132:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K516132)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K516132)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_measurement.png)

Measurement

# Part:BBa_K516132

Designed by: Susanna Zucca, Federica Sampietro, Giuseppe Bertoni   Group:
iGEM11_UNIPV-Pavia   (2011-09-08)

Constitutive promoter [J23101] with mRFP, RBS B0032

  
Protein Generator regulated by
[BBa_J23101](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_J23101)
constitutive promoter with
[BBa_B0032](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_B0032) medium
efficiency RBS, mRFP Reporter Coding Region and a double Transcription
Terminators.  
BBa_J23101 is the reference standard promoter for the computation of RPUs.  
This measurement device belongs to a set of parts useful to estimate the RBS
efficiency
([BBa_K516130](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K516130);
[BBa_K516131](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K516131)).  
  

### Usage and Biology

### Characterization

## iGEM_BIT 2019’s Characterisation

In 2019, IGEM_BIT characterized the BBa-K516132 in the microfluidic chip .

More details can be found at experience page
:<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K516132:Experience>

## Shanghai_High_School 2019’s Characterisation

## BBa_K516132 Constitutive promoter [J23101] with mRFP, RBS B0032

The change in fluorescence intensity in the medium is related to the culture
conditions, such as culture time, culture temperature, etc., in addition to
the type of fluorescent protein. We studied this by experimenting with changes
in culture time, culture temperature and fluorescence protein type.

1\. We transformed the plasmid contanining BBa_K516132 and plasmid contanining
BBa_K1073024 into bacterial competent cells separately, plated and cultured
overnight at 37 °C.

2\. On the evening of the next day, we picked single clone into a tube
containing 5 ml LB which is called 0h. At the same time, we also inoculated
competent DH5α strain into a tube containing 5 ml LB as a blank control. We
culture bacterial cells at 37 ° C, 220 rpm. The sampling time point is 24h.

3\. We took 100ul of the bacteria culture and measured the total fluorescence
with a Thermo fluorescence microplate reader. We took 200ul of the ten-fold
diluted bacterial solution and measured the OD600 with BioTek optical
microplate reader. Total fluorescence is divided by OD600 to obtain
fluorescence value per OD600.

[![Characterization of popular BioBrick
RBSs](/wiki/images/thumb/e/e0/K516132-4.png/400px-K516132-4.png)](/File:K516132-4.png
"Characterization of popular BioBrick RBSs")

**Figure1. BBa_K516132 containing strain OD600 at 30℃ and 37℃.**

The OD600 of blank control DH5α cells grown at 30 ° C and 37 ° C were 3.285
and 3.245, respectively, which is very close. The OD600 of the strain
containing BBa_K516132 grown at 30 ° C was 2.735, which was lower than the
OD600 3.485 at 37 ° C.

[![Characterization of popular BioBrick
RBSs](/wiki/images/thumb/0/08/K516132-2.png/400px-K516132-2.png)](/File:K516132-2.png
"Characterization of popular BioBrick RBSs")

**Figure2. Ba_K516132 containing strain Fluorescence per OD600 at 24h and
30h.**

We measured the RFU/OD600 of the strain at 24h and 30h, respectively. The
RFU/OD600 at 24h is 49.57 ,which is higher than the RFU/OD600 31.04 at 30h.

[![Characterization of popular BioBrick
RBSs](/wiki/images/thumb/1/15/K516132-3.png/400px-K516132-3.png)](/File:K516132-3.png
"Characterization of popular BioBrick RBSs")

**Figure3. BBa_K516132 containing strain Fluorescence per OD600 at 30℃ and
37℃.**

We measured the RFU/OD600 of the strain at 30℃and 37℃, respectively. The DH5α
RFU/OD600 at 24h and 30h is close to zero. The Bba_K516132 containing strain

RFU/OD600 is 45.26 at 37℃，which is higher than 3.74 at 30℃.

To sum up: the growth OD600 of the BBa_K516132-RFP strain is similar to the
control DH5α, and this strain should have reached a stable phase at 24 h. The
BBa_K516132-RFP strain has a much higher fluorescence at 37 ° C than 30 ° C.

These results indicate that the BBa_K516132-RFP protein may be expressed more
or more stably at 37 °C, which also means that it may be necessary to find a
suitable culture temperature when expressing an unknown protein.

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

Illegal NheI site found at 7  
Illegal NheI site found at 30  

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal AgeI site found at 617  
Illegal AgeI site found at 729  

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

### Functional Parameters

n/a| Constitutive promoter [J23101] with mRFP, RBS B0032

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/4/43/T--Austin_Utexas--
Low_significant_burden.png)

**Burden Value: 8.7 ± 4.8%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This part exhibited a significant burden. Users should be
aware that BioBricks with a burden of >20-30% may be susceptible to mutating
to become less functional or nonfunctional as an evolutionary consequence of
this fitness cost. This risk increases as they used for more bacterial cell
divisions or in larger cultures. Users should be especially careful when
combining multiple burdensome parts, as plasmids with a total burden of >40%
are expected to mutate so quickly that they become unclonable. Refer to any
one of the [BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods and other conclusions from a large-scale
measurement project conducted by the [2019 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas)

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K516132)]

Categories

Parameters

| n/a| Constitutive promoter [J23101] with mRFP, RBS B0032

