---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K895006"
author: Reporter
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K895006)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K895006:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K895006:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K895006)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

No Results

[6 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K895006)

[11 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K895006)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K895006)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)

Reporter

# Part:BBa_K895006

Designed by: Frank Sargent   Group: iGEM12_Dundee   (2012-09-23)

  
GFP open reading frame

This is GFP from Biobrick
[BBa_J54103](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_J54103), which we
have sequenced and re-cloned to RFC[10] standard in pSB1C3.

  

##### Contribution

Group: Team Tsinghua 2017

Author: Boyang Gao

Summary: iGEM 2017 Team Tsinghua has made a significant improvement of this
part, by validating that this GFP protein works well in the S. cerevisiae
(baking yeast) chassis, and adding a yeast inducible promoter pGalS
(BBa_K2247000) in front of this part. The new part we constructed is
[BBa_K2247001](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K2247001). By making this
improvement, we achieved inducible expression of GFP by galactose or by yeast
Gal4 protein in yeast cells, and this new composite part can also serve to
validate and characterize the function of the pGalS promoter. In future
projects applying the yeast-two-hybrid or yeast-one-hybrid system, this new
part can serve as a basic and standard reporter plasmid. For experimental
validation of the new part, please see the main page of BBa_K2247001.

## Team uOttawa 2019: Characterization and Improvement of BBa_K895006

**Abstract:** Team uOttawa creates a translational unit out of
[BBa_K895006](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K895006) named
[BBa_K3271028](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3271028) to assess the use of
the GFP coding sequence in _Saccharomyces cerevisiae_. Finding the
fluorescence signal to be weak, they improve
[BBa_K895006](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K895006) by using a codon
sequence optimized for _S. cerevisiae_ and by using a similar translational
unit to [BBa_K3271028](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3271028) (improvement
code [BBa_K3271029](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3271029) to provide direct
comparison between the fluorescence of their proposed GFP translational unit
sequence and that of [BBa_K895006](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K895006).

  

We created the translational unit
[BBa_K3271028](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3271028) ( **Figure 1** ) by
relying on homologous recombination in _S. cerevisiae_.  
To do so, we made 3 sets of primers which had the following characteristics:  
• One set of primers would amplify the GFP open reading frame and create
homologous overhangs to the GDP promoter and the CYC1 terminator.  
• One set of primers would amplify from the URA 3 promoter to the GDP promoter
and create a homologous overhang to the GFP open reading frame.  
• One set of primers would amplify the CYC1 terminator and create a homologous
overhang to the GFP open reading frame.

  

After performing the 3 PCRs, we had 3 different DNA parts with homologous
regions of overhang. We then did a yeast transformation and relied on the
yeast to perform homologous recombination to fuse the homologous regions
together ( **Figure 1** ). We used the BY4742 strain of yeast because it has a
URA3 gene mutation that makes URA3 dysfunctional; this technically means that
if the yeast incorporated our DNA, it would would grow on Ura- selection.

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/8c/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig1.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig1.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig1.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig1.png "Enlarge")

**Figure 1.** Translational unit
[BBa_K3271028](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3271028) is comprised of
[BBa_K895006](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K895006) flanked by the
constitutive GDP promoter and the CYC1 terminator. The translational unit was
additionally flanked with Ura3 locus homologies to allow insertion into the
yeast genome.

Following the yeast transformation we did a colony PCR to verify that our
transformation worked. Once confirmed, we moved on to using a confocal
microscope and ImageJ software to characterize the part. We compared the
intensity of the GFP open reading frame from the construct to that of the
yeast strain BY4742 as the negative control. It is evident that there is
basically no fluorescence from the yeast strain BY4742 (as there shouldn't
be).

  

First, using the confocal microscope, we randomly chose 11 different sampling
areas at the same magnification from the slide; we then took both Brightfield
and fluorescent images of these sampling areas. Of the 11 sets of sample
images, we chose 7 to analyze. To analyze the images, we opened the
fluorescent image from each set in ImageJ. We began by using the Brightfield
image (pulled up on another screen) to help us select an area on the
fluorescent image where there were no cells. Then, we recorded the area, min &
max gray value, integrated density, and mean gray value of the selected area.
Next, we used the process tool to subtract the mean gray value of the selected
area. Once this was done, we measured the min & max gray value, integrated
density, and mean gray value of the entire image. Separately, we counted the
amount of cells in each sample using the Brightfield image; note that a
budding cell was counted as a single cell. Finally, we divided the integrated
density by the number of cells in a given sample to find the fluorescence of
each cell. Below is the data obtained:

  

Sample #3:

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/9/94/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig2.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig2.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig2.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig2.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/a/aa/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig3.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig3.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig3.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig3.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b9/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig4.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig4.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig4.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig4.png "Enlarge")

Fluorescence= 7133504/369=199331.989 RFU

  

Sample #6:

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/f/fb/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig5.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig5.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig5.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig5.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1d/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig6.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig6.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig6.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig6.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/4f/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig7.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig7.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig7.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig7.png "Enlarge")

Fluorescence= Fluorescence=7136663/331=21560.915 RFU

  

Sample #7:

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/6/6c/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig8.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig8.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig8.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig8.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b1/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig9.png/300px-T--uOttawa
--ImproveGold_Fig9.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig9.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig9.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/c/cb/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig10.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig10.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig10.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig10.png "Enlarge")

Fluorescence=7776882/353=22030.827 RFU

Sample #8:

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/5/50/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig11.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig11.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig11.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig11.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/3/35/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig12.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig12.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig12.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig12.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/87/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig13.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig13.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig13.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig13.png "Enlarge")

Fluorescence=8266620/337=24530.030 RFU

Sample #9:

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/87/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig14.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig14.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig14.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig14.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/4e/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig15.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig15.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig15.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig15.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/a/af/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig16.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig16.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig16.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig16.png "Enlarge")

Fluorescence=7687136/384=20018.583 RFU

Sample #10:

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/f/f8/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig17.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig17.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig17.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig17.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/4f/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig18.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig18.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig18.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig18.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b9/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig19.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig19.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig19.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig19.png "Enlarge")

Fluorescence= 7438327/259=28719.409 RFU

Sample #11:

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/f/fe/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig20.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig20.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig20.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig20.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/0/0e/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig21.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig21.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig21.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig21.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/c/c5/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig22.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig22.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig22.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig22.png "Enlarge")

Fluorescence= 7732853/271=28534.513 RFU

Note that the average fluorescence of each cell is 19331.989 + 21560.915 +
22030.827 + 24530. 030 + 20018.583 + 28719.409 + 28534.513 =
164726.266/7=23532.324 RFU

Negative (Strain BY4742):

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/e/e2/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig23.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig23.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig23.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig23.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/42/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig24.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig24.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig24.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig24.png "Enlarge")

800x

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1d/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig25.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig25.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig25.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig25.png "Enlarge")

Fluorescence= 5/255=0.0196078 RFU

Thus, the fluorescence of
[BBa_K895006](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K895006) in our translational
unit as compared to the wild-type yeast strain looks like:

[File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold
Fig26.png](/wiki/index.php?title=Special:Upload&wpDestFile=T--uOttawa--
ImproveGold_Fig26.png "File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold Fig26.png")

800x

Using a similar experimental strategy we built an improved translational unit,
[BBa_K3271029](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3271029), which is identical to
the one depicted in **Figure 1** , except that the GFP from
[BBa_K895006](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K895006) is replaced by GFP in
which the codons were optimized for expression in yeast (yeGFP).

  

This improved translational unit visibly fluoresced more as can be seen by the
microscopy pictures below. The improved translational unit was also assessed
by fluorescence microscopy in the strain W303a.

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/0/02/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig27.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig27.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig27.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig27.png "Enlarge")

More S. cerevisiae cells are fluorescing strongly using our improved
translational unit.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1b/T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig28.png/300px-T--
uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig28.png)](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig28.png)

[](/File:T--uOttawa--ImproveGold_Fig28.png "Enlarge")

Improved translational unit results in intense fluorescence signal with higher
fluorescing cell count. Green: Wild-type. Red: Improved translational unit.

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 644  

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K895006)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

