---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K554001"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, ecoli, collections, probiotics, control] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K554001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[5 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K554001)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K554001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

flhDC

# Part:BBa_K554001

Designed by: UNICAMP EMSE Brazil team   Group: iGEM11_Brazil-France
(2011-09-21)

flhDC promoter

flhDC promoter is a regulatory sequence found upstream the flhDC genes in
enterohaemorragic 'E. coli' (EHEC) and other pathogenic enterobacteria. Since
flhDC are the master activators of the flagella regulon, (Clarke et al, 2005),
therefore important to activate flagella and motility of such pathogens.
Sperandio et al (2003) demonstrated that virulence genes and motility related
genes such as flhDC are induced by the signals AI-3, epinephrine and
norepinephrine through activation of
[QseC](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554006) (a bacterial adrenergic
receptor), which induces phosphorylation of the transcription factor
[QseB](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554006), which binds to flhDC promoter
and activated transcription. Importantly, this interaction is dependent on
[QseB](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554006)'s phosphorylation state (Clarke
et al, 2005). Only in the presence of catecholamines such as Adrenaline and
Epinephrine, and the quorum-sensing auto inducer 3 the
[QseB](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554006) will be phosphorylated by
active form of [QseC](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554006) adrenergic
receptor, which has a histidine sensor kinase domain (SPERANDIO et al. ,
2002).

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

### Usage and Biology

flhDC promoter is used by [UNICAMP-EMSE Brazil
team](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-EMSE_Brazil) in the [Adrenaline sensor
device](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-EMSE_Brazil/Project/Device1)
("Device 1", which senses Cathecolamine and AI-3 levels and responds by
producing and secreting IL-12. The flhDC is essential to the functioning of
this device, since it is responsible for the response induction, being the
[IL-12](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K554005) synthesis trigger.

This part is shown in purple in the following schema:

[![UNICAMP EMSE IL 12
device.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/3/39/UNICAMP_EMSE_IL_12_device.jpg/700px-
UNICAMP_EMSE_IL_12_device.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_IL_12_device.jpg)

### References

  1. Clarke MB, Sperandio V (2005) Transcriptional regulation of flhDC by QseBC and sigma (FliA) in enterohaemorrhagic Escherichia coli. Mol Microbiol 57: 1734–1749. [Link to PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16135237)
  2. Sperandio V, Torres AG, Jarvis B, Nataro JP, Kaper JB (2003) Bacteria-host communication: the language of hormones. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 100: 8951–8956. [Link to PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12847292)
  3. Sperandio V, Torres AG, Kaper JB (2002) Quorum sensing Escherichia coli regulators B and C (QseBC): a novel two-component regulatory system involved in the regulation of flagella and motility by quorum sensing in E. coli. Mol Microbiol 43: 809–821. [Link to PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11929534)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K554001)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/ecoli  
//collections/probiotics/control

Parameters

None|

