---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K654058"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K654058)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K654058:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K654058:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K654058)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[3 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K654058)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K654058)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K654058

Designed by: Cody Tramp   Group: iGEM11_Utah_State   (2011-08-12)

Thioesterase (TesA from E. coli) with 8-His Tag

TesA thioesterase gene from E. coli. Contains a 8-Histidine tag immediately
before the stop codon to allow gel identification and extraction. The TesA
thioesterase converts fatty acyl-ACP into fatty acids with a hydration
reaction.

  

[![2011 Utah State
Thioesterase.png](/wiki/images/thumb/e/ed/2011_Utah_State_Thioesterase.png/300px-2011_Utah_State_Thioesterase.png)](/File:2011_Utah_State_Thioesterase.png)

  

  
Thioesterase is used in conjunction with Fatty Acyl-CoA Synthetase to greatly
increase the concentration of Fatty Acyl-CoA present in the cell, to increase
the amount of bioproducts produced. It is used to produce Fatty Alcohols and
Wax Esters in the 2011 Utah_State iGEM project.  
  
  

[![2011 Utah State Pathway
2.png](/wiki/images/thumb/9/9b/2011_Utah_State_Pathway_2.png/700px-2011_Utah_State_Pathway_2.png)](/File:2011_Utah_State_Pathway_2.png)

  

### Usage and Biology

The Acyl ACP thioesterase converts fatty acids ACP or fatty acids CoA into
free fatty acids.

### Manipulations

## Activity

The experience consists in evaluating the enzymatic activity of the TesA
protein in vitro. An acid value (AV) was performed after a fatty acid
extraction with hexane on bacterial culture media. Two conditions were used as
our pBAD promoter is inducible by arabinose: induced and non induced samples.
To do that a transformation of _E. coli_ thermocompetent JM109 have been done.

[![T--Poitiers--TPCRcolo3.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/5/51/T--Poitiers--
TPCRcolo3.jpg/500px-T--Poitiers--TPCRcolo3.jpg)](/File:T--Poitiers--
TPCRcolo3.jpg)

  
**Colonie PCR after transformation of _E. coli_ thermocompetent with TesA
K654058.**  
The PCR was performed with plasmid primer. The migration was performed at 100
volts for 30 minutes in TAE 1X. The marker used during the migration is the
NEB 1 kb Plus Ladder.  

After transformation, minipreparation is realized and enzymatic digestion is
performed. The ligation between TesA, pBAD and pSB1A3 is then realized.

[![T--Poitiers--TPCRcolo.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/7/72/T--Poitiers--
TPCRcolo.jpg/500px-T--Poitiers--TPCRcolo.jpg)](/File:T--Poitiers--
TPCRcolo.jpg)

  

**Colony PCR of pBAD/tesA construct into pSB1A3 plasmid.**  

The migration was performed at 100 volts for 30 minutes in TAE 1X. The marker
used during the migration is the NEB 1 kb Plus Ladder.  

  
The construction pSB1C3 / tesA seems to have been integrated around 1000 bp.
However, a weak band also seems to be present around 1300 bp which corresponds
to the size expected for the pBAD / tesA / pSB1A3 construction. The
construction was then induced and an acidic value is performed.  

  

[![T--Poitiers--THistogrammeindiceAcide.png](/wiki/images/1/17/T--Poitiers--
THistogrammeindiceAcide.png)](/File:T--Poitiers--THistogrammeindiceAcide.png)

  

**Acidic value of TesA induced and non-induced fatty acids extracted
samples.**  

Transformed bacteria with TesA gene and pBAD promoter were cultured until
DO600nm = 0.5 then induced or not with 0.2% arabinose. Fatty acids were then
extracted from our bacterial culture media with hexane and acidic value was
then measured.  

The volume of potassium hydroxide (KOH) in milliliters to neutralize the free
acidity in our samples was measured thanks to an indicator dye: the
phenolphthalein. The acid value, which represent here the quantity of KOH
needed to neutralize the free fatty acids existent in the sample, was then
calculated. It exhibited a difference between the induced sample and the non-
one. The non-induced sample presented a smaller AV (0,05 mg) compared with the
induced one (2,5 mg) which confirms that the induction leaded to an active
TesA which increased the production of free fatty acids in the media.  

### Sequence and features

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K654058 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: -0.9 ± 7.4%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K654058)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

