---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K592100"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,cds, reporter, collections, chromoprotein, uppsala, function, reporter, fluorescence] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K592100)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K592100:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K592100:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K592100)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[41 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K592100)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K592100)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

BFP

# Part:BBa_K592100

Designed by: Erik Gullberg   Group: iGEM11_Uppsala-Sweden   (2011-09-20)

Blue Fluorescent Protein (mTagBFP)

This part codes for the bright blue fluorescent protein mTagBFP. mTagBFP is a
monomeric protein with a narrow fluorescence emission spectrum with a maximum
at 456 nm. It has a tyrosine-based chromophore, giving it substantially higher
brightness, faster chromophore maturation and higher pH stability than blue
fluorescent proteins with a histidine in the chromophore. Subach et. al.
started with a red fluorescent protein (TagRFP) and converted it to a bright
blue monomeric protein. See the article listed in source. The sequence has
been codon optimized for expression in E coli by DNA 2.0.

Subach et. al. reported the following data:

Excitation peak: 399 nm. Emission peak: 456 nm. Maturation Half-Time (min):
13. Relative brightness to EBFP2: 1.82. Extinction Coefficient (M-1 cm-1):
52000. Quantum Yield: 0.63.

### Usage and Biology

This part is useful as a reporter.

[![A14
UU.JPG](/wiki/images/thumb/4/4e/A14_UU.JPG/400px-A14_UU.JPG)](/File:A14_UU.JPG)
[![A16
UU.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/8/81/A16_UU.jpg/400px-A16_UU.jpg)](/File:A16_UU.jpg)

**iGEM11_Uppsala-Sweden**. Fluorescence on UV table. The images above show _E
coli_ constitutively expressing mTagBFP
[BBa_K592100](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592100) (blue)
and YFP [BBa_K592101](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K592101)
(yellow) illuminated on a UV table.

### References

[[1]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18940671) Subach, O. M., I. S.
Gundorov, et al. (2008). "Conversion of red fluorescent protein into a bright
blue probe." Chem Biol 15(10): 1116-24.

  

## Jiangsu_High_School 2019’s Characterisation

### BBa_K592100 Blue Fluorescent Protein (mTagBFP)

The E. coli expressing blue fluorescent protein(mTagBFP) were cultured at 28
°C and the overnight bacterial solution was collected for subsequent
measurement.

After ultrasonically disruption of the above bacterial solution ,5 ul of each
was added to 4 kinds of 45 ul solution having a pH of 3, 5, 7, and 9, and the
fluorescence was measured using varioskan flash of Thermo Scientific. The
excitation wavelength/emission wavelength corresponding to each fluorescent
protein is: BFP:402/457.

[![FluorescenceofBFP.png](/wiki/images/thumb/9/9a/FluorescenceofBFP.png/400px-
FluorescenceofBFP.png)](/File:FluorescenceofBFP.png)

Figure Fluorescence of BFP under different pH. There were two kinds of BFP
expressing in E.coli(BFP) and expressing in E.coli after ultrasonically
disruption(BFP-UC). Under the same pH, the fluorescence of BFP was higher than
BFP-UC. With increasing of pH( among pH3, pH5, pH7,), the fluorescence of BFP
and BFP-UC all raised. When the pH increased from pH7 to pH9, the fluorescence
of BFP and BFP-UC were all down.

The results showed that the fluorescent value of each fluorescent protein did
not change significantly in acid and alkali circumstance before sonication,
but after sonication, each fluorescent protein showed the highest fluorescent
value at pH 7, and the fluorescent value decreased as the environment became
more acidic.

## Shanghai_HS_United 2019's characterization

### BBa_K592100 Blue Fluorescent Protein (mTagBFP)

When the fluorescent protein is excited, an emission spectrum is generated,
and the emitted light has different fluorescence intensities at different
wavelengths. To explore this, we designed a full-wavelength scan of the blue
fluorescent protein.

1\. We transformed the plasmid contanining BBa_K592100-mTagBFP into bacterial
competent cells separately, plated and cultured overnight at 37 °C.

2\. On the evening of the next day, we picked single clone into a tube
containing 5 ml LB which is called 0h. At the same time, we also inoculated
competent DH5α strain into a tube containing 5 ml LB as a blank control.We
culture bacterial cells at 37 ° C, 220 rpm. The sampling time point is 24h.

3\. We took 100ul of the bacteria culture and measured the total fluorescence
with a Thermo fluorescence microplate reader. We took 200ul of the ten-fold
diluted bacterial solution and measured the OD600 with BioTek optical
microplate reader. Total fluorescence is divided by OD600 to obtain
fluorescence value per OD600.

[![Characterization of popular BioBrick
RBSs](/wiki/images/thumb/f/fb/K592100-S1.png/400px-K592100-S1.png)](/File:K592100-S1.png
"Characterization of popular BioBrick RBSs")

**Figure1. TagBFP containing strain RFU/OD600 at different emission
Wavelength.**

The K592100-mTagBFP RFU/OD600 of the strain varies with the emission
wavelength. The overall curve showed a normal distribution and the RFU/OD600
of the strain reachs its maximum at 456 nm. The absorbance value of the blank
control DH5α is close to zero.

These results indicate that the absorbance value of the strain is produced by
the BFP protein expressed in the cell instead of other factors in the cell,
and the BFP protein has the optimal excitation light wavelength 402nm and
emission light wavelength 456nm.

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K592100)]

Categories

//cds/reporter  
//collections/chromoprotein/uppsala  
//function/reporter/fluorescence

Parameters

abs| 399 nm| color| Blue| emission| 456 nm| excitation| 399 nm

