---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K325909"
author: Generator
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K325909)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K325909:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K325909:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K325909)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[6 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K325909)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K325909)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_generator.png)

Generator

# Part:BBa_K325909

Designed by: Theo Sanderson and Will Handley   Group: iGEM10_Cambridge
(2010-10-23)

Lux Operon (under pBAD)  
 _Vibrio Fischeri_

| _Input_ :  | L-Arabinose  
---|---  
_Output_ :  |  Light  
  
| pBad/araC  
I0500| PoPS to Light  
| | ![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)|
![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_reporter.png)|  |
[![Cambridge-Eglowli.png](/wiki/images/c/c3/Cambridge-
Eglowli.png)](/File:Cambridge-Eglowli.png)  
---|---|---|---  
  
* * *

**Part Main Page** [Arabinose -> Light](/Part:BBa_K325909:ArabinosetoLight
"Part:BBa K325909:ArabinosetoLight") [H-NS mutants](/Part:BBa_K325909:Mutants
"Part:BBa K325909:Mutants") [Add Data](/Part:BBa_K325909:Experience "Part:BBa
K325909:Experience")

  

  
**Description**  
This page described the _lux operon_ from _Vibrio fischeri_. To relieve LuxR
control we placed Lux C, D, A, B, E under the
[pBad](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_I0500) promoter. A more complete
description can be found on the [Cambridge iGEM 2010
website](http://2010.igem.org/Team:Cambridge/Bioluminescence/G28).

This Bacterial lux operons encodes five enzymes involved in the light-
generating pathway. LuxA and LuxB encode the two subunits of the bacterial
luciferase, while the products of LuxC, LuxD and LuxE synthesise the substrate
for the light emitting reaction, tetradecanal. The exact function of LuxG is
unknown, and it appears to be non-essential for light emission, but its
presence increases light output.

In nature, the lux genes appear to be repressed by the nucleoid protein, H-NS,
and occur under quorum sensing control. We removed the natural quorum sensing
control to facilitate use of the part in biosensors under different regulatory
inputs.

As of October 2010 we believe this is the first and only BioBrick to emit
light in normal E. coli strains without the addition of any external
substrate.

  

Measured by the [Cambridge iGEM team
2010](http://2010.igem.org/Team:Cambridge)

**Compatibility**  
[_Chassis:_](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/pgroup.cgi?pgroup=cell) Device
has been shown to work in _Top 10 (Invitrogen)_ , [BW25113 DELTA
H-NS::kan](http://www.ecoliwiki.net/colipedia/index.php/BW25113) and H-NS
mutant JM 230 H-NS -205::tn10.br> [_Plasmids:_](/Plasmid_backbones "Plasmid
backbones") Device has been shown to work on
_[pSB1C3](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:pSB1C3)_  

  
**Additional characterisation by the[Penn iGEM team
2015](http://2015.igem.org/Team:Penn)  
** Penn iGEM 2015 used this part to make the sender cells in light-mediated
cell communication. The lux operon BioBrick on PSB1C3 was transformed into NEB
10-beta competent cells (since it is a commonly used E. coli strain in iGEM)
and an H-NS mutant E. coli strain (since the protein has been shown to reduce
lux gene expression). The luminescent signal of the two sender strains was
compared over time to determine what luminescent output trend would be best
for inducing our light-sensitive receiver. Furthermore, using a calibrated
conversion system designed by the team, Penn IGEM was about to convert the
output from relative lights units (a measure typically used to calculate
bioluminescent signals) to an absolute measure in uW/cm^2. Using the absolute
units will assist in making the characterization of bioluminescent parts such
as BBa_K325909 more consistent across luminometer devices and across projects.
For more information, please follow this
[link](http://2015.igem.org/Team:Penn/Sender).

  
**Additional characterisation by the[NTNU Trondheim iGEM team
2017](http://2017.igem.org/Team:NTNU_Trondheim)**  
Team NTNU Trondheim 2017 has improved the characterisation of the biobrick
BBa_K325909, which is an operon consisting of Lux C, D, A, B, E under the
arabinose-induced promoter pBAD.  
  
By looking at previous characterisation results of the biobrick, we thought it
would work reasonably to use DH5α competent E. coli cells and an incubation
temperature of 37 °C. However, when testing with 0.01M arabinose
concentrations, no observable luminescence was detected at any time after
induction. Therefore, we decided to characterise the biobrick by measuring the
luminescence from the lux operon at different arabinose concentrations and
temperatures. We measured the luminescence with a Tecan M200 plate reader,
using four different temperatures and six different arabinose concentrations.
As the machine could only perform heating and not cooling, it was challenging
to measure at temperatures below 29 °C.  
  
Results from our experiments are shown in the graphs below. As no luminescence
was detected at 37 °C, these graphs are not included.  
  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/c/cd/Lux_graph_24.png/500px-
Lux_graph_24.png)](/File:Lux_graph_24.png)

[](/File:Lux_graph_24.png "Enlarge")

Luciferase luminescence of the lux operon in supercompetent DH5 E. coli cells,
detected by a Tecan M200 plate reader at 24.0 °C and six arabinose
concentrations over five hours.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/d/da/Lux_graph_28-8.png/500px-
Lux_graph_28-8.png)](/File:Lux_graph_28-8.png)

[](/File:Lux_graph_28-8.png "Enlarge")

Luciferase luminescence of the lux operon in supercompetent DH5 E. coli cells,
detected by a Tecan M200 plate reader at 28.8 °C and six arabinose
concentrations over five hours.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/7/7d/Lux_graph_29_3.png/500px-
Lux_graph_29_3.png)](/File:Lux_graph_29_3.png)

[](/File:Lux_graph_29_3.png "Enlarge")

Luciferase luminescence of the lux operon in supercompetent DH5 E. coli cells,
detected by a Tecan M200 plate reader at 29.3 °C and six arabinose
concentrations over five hours.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/7/7e/Lux_graph_33-4.png/500px-
Lux_graph_33-4.png)](/File:Lux_graph_33-4.png)

[](/File:Lux_graph_33-4.png "Enlarge")

Luciferase luminescence of the lux operon in supercompetent DH5 E. coli cells,
detected by a Tecan M200 plate reader at 34.4 °C and six arabinose
concentrations over five hours.

  
By looking at how luciferase luminescence from the lux operon developed with
time after induction by arabinose, we established that a temperature of 29 °C
was optimal. This can be seen in the graph below:  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/8e/Lux_trend.png/500px-
Lux_trend.png)](/File:Lux_trend.png)

[](/File:Lux_trend.png "Enlarge")

Average values of luciferase luminescence of the lux operon in supercompetent
DH5 E. coli cells, detected by a Tecan M200 plate reader at four different
temperatures and six arabinose concentrations with time.

  

**Additional Characterization by the SHSID_China Team 2018**

The SHSID_China Team 2018 has improved upon the work of the Cambridge iGEM
team 2010 and NTNU Trondheim iGEM team 2017, by performing additional
experiments to determine the optimal conditions of maximum light emission to
add further information and build upon the characterization of part
BBa_K325909. As this part is provided in the 2018 Distribution Kit, we tested
the effectiveness of the arabinose induced _lux_ operon-encoded enzymatic
pathway for light emission in part BBa_K325909 by transforming it into E.
coli, incubating overnight and subjecting it to different final concentrations
of arabinose over a course of five hours. Reflecting upon the previous
characterizations, we chose a temperature of 29℃ to perform our experiments,
since by looking at the information presented by the NTNU Trondheim iGEM team
2017, it seems as if 29℃ may provide us with the brightest results.

Luminometric and photometric measurements were taken with a Thermo Scientific
Varioskan Flask 4.00.53 every hour throughout the experiment, and the data was
recorded on the raw data table provided below.

![800px-T--SHSID_China--
imp1.png](http://2018.igem.org/wiki/images/thumb/9/9b/T--SHSID_China--
imp1.png/800px-T--SHSID_China--imp1.png)

The data is analyzed using the formula: (Average Luminescence/0Hrs
Luminescence)/(Average Abs/0Hrs Abs) for each concentration of arabinose, and
the graphs are plotted below, with part BBa_K325909 abbreviated as 4L:

![320px-T--SHSID_China--
imp2.png](http://2018.igem.org/wiki/images/thumb/3/33/T--SHSID_China--
imp2.png/320px-T--SHSID_China--imp2.png)

From the graph, even though the relative luminescence of the bacteria are
similar during the first four hours, there is a significant increase in
relative luminescence during the fifth hour at a concentration of 0.1M,
therefore we have concluded that inducing part BBa_K325909 with 0.1M arabinose
will result in the most intense light emission.

## Contents

  * 1 IMPROVEMENT REFERENCE: SHSID_China 2018
  * 2 Pictures
    * 2.1 Group
    * 2.2 Summary and Uploads
  * 3 Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

## IMPROVEMENT REFERENCE: SHSID_China 2018

The part was linked with a luxG protein to improve the bioluminescence
strength in bacteria. The new part is :
[BBa_K2836002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K2836002)(Group: iGEM18
SHSID_China), Designed by: Chang Wei-Tse.

## Pictures

[![](/wiki/images/8/8b/250px-Cambridge-iGEMpixels.jpg)](/File:250px-Cambridge-
iGEMpixels.jpg)

[](/File:250px-Cambridge-iGEMpixels.jpg "Enlarge")

**Figure 1 - E.coli cells (Invitrogen TOP 10) transformed with[BBa
K325909](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K325909) in a 96 well plate. **

**References**  
[**[1 ]:**](http://www.jstor.org/stable/4449975) J. Slock, (1995)
Transformation Experiments Using Bioluminescence Genes of _Vibrio fischeri_ ,
_The American Biology Teacher_ , **57** , 225-227.

[**[2
]:**](http://www.annualreviews.org/doi/pdf/10.1146/annurev.mi.42.100188.001055)
E.A. Meighen (1988) Enzymes and genes from the _lux_ operons of bioluminescent
bacteria, _Annual Reviews in Microbiology_ **42** , 151-176. [**[3
]:**](http://www.annualreviews.org/doi/pdf/10.1146/annurev.ge.28.120194.001001)
E.A. Meighen, (1994) Genetics of bacterial bioluminescence, _Annual Reviews of
Genetics_ , **28** , 117-139. Following is a contribution to this part, by the
NUS_Singapore 2019 team.

  

  
  
  

_Following is a contribution to this part, by the NUS_Singapore 2019 team._

  

### Group

NUS_Singapore 2019

### Summary and Uploads

Team NUS Singapore 2019 has contributed additional characterization data for
biobrick BBa_K325909 by characterizing this biobrick in two different _E.
coli_ strains: MG1655 and 10-beta. To demonstrate the functionality of BBa
K325909, the team added arabinose concentrations of 0.2% and 2% proposed by
earlier iGEM teams to induce both 10-beta and MG1655 at late exponential
phase, at an OD600 of approximately 0.9. Right after the induction, the
96-well plate was read for 20h continuously at 29°C in a microplate reader.  
  
Interestingly, the team observed that for both arabinose concentrations,
MG1655 produced luminescence at a higher intensity compared to 10-beta over
time. Additionally, the duration of luminescence production was approximately
twice as long in MG1655 compared to 10-beta when 0.2% arabinose was added.
Looking at the growth curves of both strains induced with 0.2% and 2%
arabinose, it appears that the maximum growth of each strain does contribute
to the observed luminescence graphs.  
  
![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/0/0c/T--NUS_Singapore--
PartsRegistry_Lux1.png)  
_Figure 1: Growth curve of 10-beta and MG1655 right after 0.2% arabinose
induction at 0h_ ![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/0/0c/T--NUS_Singapore--
PartsRegistry_Lux2.png)  
_Figure 2: Total luminescence produced by 10-beta and MG1655 right after 0.2%
arabinose induction at 0h_ ![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/d/d7/T--
NUS_Singapore--PartsRegistry_Lux3.png)  
_Figure 3: Growth curve of 10-beta and MG1655 right after 2% arabinose
induction at 0h_ ![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/4/40/T--NUS_Singapore--
PartsRegistry_Lux4.png)  
_Figure 4: Total luminescence produced by 10-beta and MG1655 right after 2%
arabinose induction at 0h_  
  
Taken together, these results show that MG1655, which has never been used to
characterize BBa_K325909 activity previously, demonstrates enhanced and
prolonged luminescence production compared to the commonly used strain -
10-beta; and this is likely due to a higher maximum growth in the former
strain.

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/4/43/T--Austin_Utexas--
Low_significant_burden.png)

**Burden Value: 8.3 ± 2.2%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This part exhibited a significant burden. Users should be
aware that BioBricks with a burden of >20-30% may be susceptible to mutating
to become less functional or nonfunctional as an evolutionary consequence of
this fitness cost. This risk increases as they used for more bacterial cell
divisions or in larger cultures. Users should be especially careful when
combining multiple burdensome parts, as plasmids with a total burden of >40%
are expected to mutate so quickly that they become unclonable. Refer to any
one of the [BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods and other conclusions from a large-scale
measurement project conducted by the [2019 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas)

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K325909)]

Categories

Parameters

output| Light| positive_regulators| L-arabinose

