---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K733008"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K733008)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K733008:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K733008:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K733008)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K733008)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

lytCFLAG

# Part:BBa_K733008

Designed by: CARIM, Sean; LAM Ka Shing; MOK Ka Chun; SHI, Tianxing   Group:
iGEM12_HKUST_Hong_Kong   (2012-09-16)

_lytC_ \+ linker + FLAG�

  

## Contents

  * 1 **Purpose & Intended Function**
  * 2 **Subpart Description**
  * 3 **Sequence & Features**
  * 4 **Graphic**
  * 5 Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

## **Purpose & Intended Function**

Our project seeks to design recombinant bacteria that specifically target and
suppress the growth of colorectal carcinoma cells in a controllable way. The
binding module of our biological system requires expression of a phage display
peptide (RPMrel) on the surface of _Bacillus subtilis_ , the organism we have
chosen as our carcinoma suppression vector. We chose to use Imperial College
London’s 2010 team’s LytC protein cell wall binding domain as an anchor for
chassis surface expression of RPMrel.

This construct positions the FLAG™ peptide where the RPMrel peptide would
otherwise be. Tagging LytC with the versatile FLAG™ peptide provides a range
of options for characterizing the expression of LytC. Being able to quantify
the number of recombinant cell wall binding domains on the chassis surface
would help us provide data linking expression quantity and binding ability.
Recombinant _B. subtilis_ transformed for expression of this construct can be
tested using immunofluorescence and affinity chromatography to, respectively,
localize the protein within the cellular environment and purify the protein
for quantification.

  

## **Subpart Description**

LytC (hydrolase cell wall binding domain) 1-954bp region of the 1491bp coding
sequence of the LytC protein. Isolated and submitted as a BioBrick by Imperial
College London’s 2010 team (details
[here](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K316030)).

(EAAAK)n type helical linker Stiff, long helical linker designed to separate
fusion proteins with minimal disturbance to the function of both proteins.
Features distinct 6 amino acid short linker sequence (SRGSRA) at N-terminal.
This sequence was included in construction of the recombinant fusion protein
LytC - 3xFLAG by [Yamamoto et al
(2003)](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC262103/pdf/0628.pdf) to
allow localization of the LytC protein on the cell wall.

FLAG™ peptide 8 amino acid peptide tag used in attachment to the protein-of-
interest to facilitate multiple assays. Assays include affinity chromatography
(recombinant protein purification), immunofluorescence (protein localization),
and protein electrophoresis (protein detection size studies). FLAG™ is a
registered trademark of Sigma-Aldrich Corp. Their product website can be
accessed [here](http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/life-
science/proteomics/recombinant-protein-expression/purification-detection/flag-
system.html).

  

## **Sequence & Features**

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

## **Graphic**

[![LytCFLAG
Graphic.jpg](/wiki/images/5/51/LytCFLAG_Graphic.jpg)](/File:LytCFLAG_Graphic.jpg)

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K733008 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: -1.5 ± 5.0%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K733008)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

