---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K575024"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K575024)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K575024:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K575024:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K575024)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K575024)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K575024

Designed by: Kristin Palarz   Group: iGEM11_Northwestern   (2011-09-22)

This construct was developed by Northwestern's 2011 iGEM team as part of a
_Pseudomonas Aeruginosa_ detector. The device is designed to fluoresce with
GFP in the presence of PAI1 (3-oxo-C12-HSL), one of the _Pseudomonas_ quorum
sensing molecules. The promoter in front of GFP is activated by the
combination of PAI1 from the environment and the LasR receptor (produced by
this construct).

[![Standardized Fluorescence for
S1.jpg](/wiki/images/f/f1/Standardized_Fluorescence_for_S1.jpg)](/File:Standardized_Fluorescence_for_S1.jpg)  
  
LasR/PAI1 Inducible Promoter + RBS (B0030) + GFP, Constitutive Promoter + RBS
(B0030) + LasR

Continuous expression of LasR (with RBS B0030), coupled with a LasR/PAI1
(3-oxo-C12-HSL) inducible promoter, RBS (Part B0030), and a GFP reporter.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

Illegal NheI site found at 58  
Illegal NheI site found at 921  
Illegal NheI site found at 944  

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal NgoMIV site found at 1300  
Illegal AgeI site found at 1497  

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 830  

  

[Team RMHS_Maryland 2018](http://2018.igem.org/Team:RMHS_Maryland) contributed
to the characterization of this part by obtaining novel dose-dependent
expression data for this construct in a different chassis, _E. coli_ BL21, at
realistic AI-1 concentrations (5-1000nM) that _E. coli_ produce and respond
to, demonstrating the construct’s suitability for use in co-culture.  
(\--[ishayardi](/wiki/index.php?title=User:Ishayardi&action=edit&redlink=1
"User:Ishayardi \(page does not exist\)") 20:24, 16 October 2018 (UTC))

## Team RMHS_Maryland 2018: Characterization of dose-dependent activity of
PAI-1 promoter in BL21 _Escherichia coli_ for use in co-culture

![](http://2018.igem.org/wiki/images/b/b4/T--RMHS_Maryland--
Expressiongraph.png)  
![](http://2018.igem.org/wiki/images/d/df/T--RMHS_Maryland--
percentflotable.png)  
_NOTES ON GRAPHS AND TABLES_  
Percent of cells fluorescing was determined through ImageJ analysis of cell
counts under Brightfield microscopy as compared to cell counts under
fluorescent microscopy (cell count in fluorescent scope/cell count in
brightfield microscope). Towards the end of the experiment there seemed to be
a lot of cell debris in brightfield, so it is possible that the percent of
cells fluorescing for time 4 was underestimated, since our method was unable
to account for dead cells which could show up in brightfield but without
continuing to fluoresce.  
  
Time 0 indicates when the first measurement was done. Prior to this, BL21
overnight cultures were diluted 50x into a 3 mL culture and grown for one hour
at 37C before AI-1 was added. OD at time 0 was about 0.3 and measurements were
taken directly after AI-1 was added. The sensitivity of the PAI-1 promoter (as
based on its fluorescence even on levels of AI-1 as low as 5 nM) may therefore
explain the high initial percent of cells fluorescing even at time 0.  
  
_RESULTS_  
Team RMHS_Maryland 2018 obtained novel dose-dependent expression data for this
construct in a different chassis, _E. coli_ BL21, at realistic AI-1 levels
that _E. coli_ produce and respond to, demonstrating the construct’s
suitability for use in co-culture (Kaplan 1210, Rutherford 1). Because we
noted that fluorescent expression was similar in nearly all of the high AI-1
concentrations tested by Northwestern, we aimed to use lower concentrations of
AI-1 to determine if this promoter exhibited dose-dependent expression at
realistic concentrations less than 1 uM: 0, 5, 17.5, 25 and 100 nM. We also
sought to characterize how sensitive the construct’s promoter was to changes
in AI-1 concentration by using a lower bound of 5 nM and relatively small
increments between concentrations tested.  
  
BBa_K575024 was transformed into BL21 using heat-shock single-transformation
protocol. The previously mentioned concentrations of synthetic AI-1 were added
and cells were imaged using brightfield and fluorescence microscopy every 90
minutes. Percent fluorescence, the number of cells fluorescing divided by
total number of cells in the same field, was determined by comparing
fluorescence and brightfield images of the same fields using ImageJ analysis.  
  
At lower levels of AI-1, percent expression of fluorescence is shown to be
dependent on the amount of AI-1 present. Our findings demonstrate that the
PAI-1 promoter is very sensitive, exhibiting fluorescence at concentrations as
low as 5 nM. Concentrations of AI-1 around 10-100 nM elicit high rates of
expression, but after about 4 hours show a sharp decrease in percent and
intensity of fluorescence, possibly due to degradation of the autoinducer by
cells. Percent fluorescence and qualitative observations of fluorescence
intensity are lower with 1 uM AI-1 than with 25 or 17.5 nM, but fluorescence
persists for a lengthier time period. This finding suggests that AI-1 persists
in the media for hours without being degraded, and that high AI-1
concentrations much as 1000 nM may elicit less expression as they exceed
optimal ranges used for cell-to-cell communication (Kaplan 1210). Leaky
expression of promoter was minimal, as illustrated by the lack of fluorescing
cells in the control batch culture. Based on the results of our investigation,
BBa_K575024 is extremely well-suited to facilitate two-way population-to-
population communication in _E. coli_ co-cultures due to its sensitivity,
dose-dependent expression, and minimal leakiness. These findings were verified
by our project, “Conversensations”, as BBa_K575024 was an integral part of our
successful two-way quorum-sensing feedback loop.  
  
_PICTURES_  
![](http://2018.igem.org/wiki/images/6/63/T--RMHS_Maryland--
Percentflopics.png)  
  
It can be observed that although the number of cells fluorescing may be
similar, intensity of fluorescence is much higher in response to 17.5-100 nM
AI-1. This remained true for all three time points, suggesting that the cells
themselves may be optimized to respond to certain levels of AI-1
concentrations better than others.  
  
_WORKS CITED_  
Kaplan, H. B., & Greenberg, E. P. (1985). Diffusion of autoinducer is involved
in regulation of the Vibrio fischeri luminescence system. Journal of
Bacteriology, 163(3), 1210–1214.  
  
Rutherford, S. T., & Bassler, B. L. (2012). Bacterial Quorum Sensing: Its Role
in Virulence and Possibilities for Its Control. Cold Spring Harbor
Perspectives in Medicine, 2(11), a012427.
http://doi.org/10.1101/cshperspect.a012427

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K575024)]

Categories

Parameters

n/a| LasP/30/G +CP/30/LasR

