---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K398326"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,promoter] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K398326)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K398326:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K398326:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K398326)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[3 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K398326)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K398326)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

pCaiF

# Part:BBa_K398326

Designed by: Hugo Federico Cueto Rojas   Group: iGEM10_TU_Delft   (2010-06-14)

Promoter of the CaiF protein

pCaiF is a promoter region from _E.coli_ containing the binding site for the
global regulator Crp which is expressed during periods of starvation. Under,
for example, glucose limiting circumstances pCaiF activates transcription.
pCaiF is tightly regulated by cAMP levels.

## Introduction

pCaiF is a natural promoter found in _E. coli K12_ , pCaiF is part of the
translational unit of the protein CaiF which is a transcriptional regulator of
carnitine metabolism under anaerobiosis and glucose limitation. From the
original sequence, we took the cAMP-Crp and RNApol sigma 70 binding sites.
Under low glucose levels, the cellular cAMP (cyclic Adenosine Mononucleotide
Phosphate) levels are high and thus Crp (Catabolite gene activator protein)
will bind easier to this molecule forming the complex cAMP-Crp. This complex
acts as a transcriptional regulator of over 180 proteins involved in
metabolism of secondary carbon sources.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/5/50/PCaif.png/600px-PCaif.png)](/File:PCaif.png)

[](/File:PCaif.png "Enlarge")

Figure 1: Illustration of the mechanism of promoter pCaiF. At the left the
promoter is off because there is enough substrate (glucose). At the right the
promoter is on, activated by the presence of cAMP/crp

The original purpose of pCaiF for [TU Delft 2010 iGEM
project](http://2010.igem.org/Team:TU_Delft/Project/sensing) was to serve as a
promotor for our proteins when glucose or other carbon sources easier to
degrade are not in the medium, in that way cells will grow faster and once a
certain cell density is reached they can start to degrade other carbon sources
like alkanes.

Because of the limited amount of time, we just succeeded on the construction
of a [measurement device](/Part:BBa_K398331 "Part:BBa K398331") in order to
characterize pCaiF. We hope that other teams will use these parts in the
future for several reasons, among them the necessity of well characterized
promoters in the catalog.

## Characterization

The pCaiF promoter was characterized using GFP generator E0040. To determine
the response in _E. coli_ , an experiment in which different glucose
concentrations were tested was performed. This was done in a 96-well plate and
GFP and OD was measured online of the following strains: _E. coli_ 331D (which
contains [BBa_K398331](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K398331)) and our
negative control ( _E. coli with J13002 in the plasmid pSB1A2). The protocol
is explained in more detail on the[TU Delft protocol
page](http://2010.igem.org/Team:TU_Delft#page=Notebook/protocols&anchor=pCaiF_characterization_experiment)._

## Results

The experiments showed a significant increase in GFP production when the
initial glucose concentration was 2 g/L compared to the result for an initial
glucose concentration of 10 g/L; whereas at 5 g/L a slight increase in GFP
production at the end of our measurements was found. From these plots it can
be concluded that the part is sensitive to cAMP levels. Moreover, it was found
that the part is active under starvation periods (stationary phase at low
glucose concentrations). The different plots were overlapped in order to show
the differences between the various conditions tested.

[![](/wiki/images/5/51/TU_Delft_pCaiF_glucose.jpg)](/File:TU_Delft_pCaiF_glucose.jpg)

[](/File:TU_Delft_pCaiF_glucose.jpg "Enlarge")

GFP profiles in M9 medium at different initial glucose concentrations.

  
This system has also been modeled, see the [TU Delft 2010 pCaiF
model](http://2010.igem.org/Team:TU_Delft/Modeling/pcaif-model) More details
on the [TU Delft 2010 iGEM
wiki](http://2010.igem.org/Team:TU_Delft/Project/sensing).

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

### Functional Parameters

efficiency| -NA-| function| 3.975E7 GFP molecules/second/O.D. at stationary
phase (M9 medium 2g/l glucose)

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/4/43/T--Austin_Utexas--
Low_significant_burden.png)

**Burden Value: 5.3 ± 2.4%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This part exhibited a significant burden. Users should be
aware that BioBricks with a burden of >20-30% may be susceptible to mutating
to become less functional or nonfunctional as an evolutionary consequence of
this fitness cost. This risk increases as they used for more bacterial cell
divisions or in larger cultures. Users should be especially careful when
combining multiple burdensome parts, as plasmids with a total burden of >40%
are expected to mutate so quickly that they become unclonable. Refer to any
one of the [BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods and other conclusions from a large-scale
measurement project conducted by the [2019 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas)

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K398326)]

Categories

//promoter

Parameters

| efficiency| | function| 3.975E7 GFP molecules/second/O.D. at stationary
phase (M9 medium 2g/l glucose)

