---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K748002"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,cds, enzyme, cds, enzyme, lysis, chassis, prokaryote, ecoli] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K748002)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K748002:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K748002:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K748002)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

No Results

[8 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K748002)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K748002)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K748002

Designed by: Lei Qiao   Group: iGEM12_HIT-Harbin   (2012-09-15)

Truncated lysostaphin coding sequence. Lysostaphin has has a specific lytic
action against S.aureus.

Lysostaphin is a zinc metalloenzyme that has a specific lytic action against
S.aureus. Lysostaphin has activities of three enzymes namely, endo-β-N-acetyl
glucosamidase, N-acteyl-muramyl-L-alanine amidase, glycylglycine
endopeptidase. Glycylglycine endopeptidase lyses staphylococcal cells by
hydrolyzing glycylglycine bonds in the poly-glycine bridges which form cross
links between glycopeptide chains in cell wall peptidoglycan of S.aureus
cells. The wild-type lysostaphin gene encodes a preproenzyme, and the
conversion of prolysostaphin to mature lysostaphin occurs extracellularly and
involves the removal of the hydrophilic tandem repeat portion of the
proenzyme. In order to directly produce mature lysostaphin, we truncate the
preprolysostaphin and prolysostaphin sequence.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

Illegal NheI site found at 502  

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

  

TecCEM 2015 team characterized and validated this biobrick. Its transformation
was verified by a plasmid extraction and restriction to release the biobrick
from pSB1C3. This was run on an agarose electrophoresis gel (depicted in
Figure 1). The migration pattern on the gel concurred with the expected length
of the insert.
![Gel_liso_TecCEM.png](http://2015.igem.org/wiki/images/4/43/Gel_liso_TecCEM.png)

  
**Figure 1**. 0.8% agarose gel electrophoresis showing restriction. Lanes 3,
5, and 7 were loaded with 8 microliters of restriction with 4 microlites of
loading buffer, and lanes 2, 4, and 6 with the same volume of negative control
reaction. Lane 1 with 10 microlers of 1 Kb Ladder DNA Marker Axygen

The insert was ligated and transformed; biomass was generated, and protein
extract was recovered from it. The SDS-PAGE was run using said extract; Figure
2 shows this gel when stained with Comassie solution. The expected molecular
weight was the one reported in the iGEM12-HIT-Harbin wiki (28 kDa). This
further confirmed the presence of the protein, as documented on the biobrick's
Parts Registry Entry.
![SDS_liso_TecCEM.png](http://2015.igem.org/wiki/images/5/5f/SDS_liso_TecCEM.png)

  
**Figure 2**. 12% SDS-PAGE. Lanes 2-3 were loaded with the protein extract;
lane 4 was loaded with the negative control protein extract (without plasmid).
Lane 1 was loaded with All Blue Standards Bio-Rad; red arrow points where a
band (approximately 28 KDa) is observed in samples and not observed in
negative control.

  
Finally, to experimentally validate its function and further characterize it a
bactericidal analysis was carried out. Figure 3 shows the photos taken to the
Petri dish, where it can be observed a halos formation around the filter paper
soaked in different volumes of the extract containing lysostaphin. It can be
noted that greater volumes of extract created greater halos around the filter
paper.
![Antibiogram_TecCEM.png](http://2015.igem.org/wiki/images/2/2d/Antibiogram_TecCEM.png)

  
**Figure 3**. Photos taken to the Petri dish with the Antibiogram assay. Two
filters were used to improve the image. Halos can be observed in the 3
different volumes.

A numerical analysis of these halos was performed, in order to determine the
correlation between protein extract volume (and thereby lysostaphin
concentration), and the S. aureus growth inibition. This was done by measuring
the length of the halo from the filter paper. An average value was calculated
from each volume assay and the results where graphed; furthermore, they
underwent a linear regression treatment to determine the correlation factor.
These data is shown on Figure 4 thereby proving the functionality of the
biobrick and providing insight upon its bactericidal
![Antibiogram_analysis_TecCEM.png](http://2015.igem.org/wiki/images/6/62/Antibiogram_analysis_TecCEM.png)

  
**Figure 4**. Graph showing results of antibiogram assay. It also shown the
linear regression equation and correlation factor.

## Functional improvement by TU-Eindhoven 2018

TU-Eindhoven 2018 functionally improved this part in multiple ways. Through
codon optimization, expression of the lysostaphin domain has been improved
considerably. The other major functional improvement was realized by fusing
the truncated lysostaphin to the HlyA secretion domain via a cleavable
thrombin linker. In this way, (continuous) secretion via the Type I pathway
can be achieved by co-expressing it with the HlyB/D secretion proteins. This
avoids the requirement of cell lysis for release of the truncated lysostaphin,
improving on the project of iGEM Harbin 2012, as self-destruction of their
killer device is no longer necessary. Additionally, this new construct
simplifies purification of truncated lysostaphin as running the medium over a
nickel affinity column followed by thrombin cleavage results in pure truncated
lysostaphin. The part
[BBa_K2812004](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K2812004) has
been characterized extensively and the expression, secretion and selective
activity of the truncated lysostaphin against _S. aureus_ is demonstrated
successfully. Below, the most interesting results are shown. On the left, it
can be seen that droplets of medium, in which _E. coli_ BL21 (DE3) bacteria
expressing the
[BBa_K2812004](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K2812004) part
and the HlyB/D secretion proteins have been cultured, has a lytic effect to S.
aureus. This indicates the presence of lysostaphin in the medium due to
secretion. On the right picture, a co-culture of these same induced _E. coli_
Bl21 (DE3) bacteria with _S. aureus_ can be seen. A clear halo formation
around the _E. coli_ colony can be seen, indicating lysis of the _S. aureus_.
Both plates demonstrate the secretion and activity of
[BBa_K2812004](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K2812004).

[![](/wiki/images/5/59/BBa_K2812004_medium_coculture.png)](/File:BBa_K2812004_medium_coculture.png)

Left: S. Aureus plate with 30X concentrated medium of induced T7-Lysostaphin-
HlyA Right: Co-culture of S. aureus with induced T with cell lysate of induced
T7-Lysostaphin-Hlya

See [BBa_K2812004](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K2812004) for
more a more in depth characterisation including control experiments.

  

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K748002 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 9.3 ± 9.1%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K748002)]

Categories

//cds/enzyme  
//cds/enzyme/lysis  
//chassis/prokaryote/ecoli

Parameters

None|

