---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K864400"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, ecoli, direction, forward, promoter, regulation, positive, rnap, prokaryote, ecoli, sigma70] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K864400)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K864400:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K864400:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K864400)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[99 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K864400)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K864400)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K864400

Designed by: Erik Lundin   Group: iGEM12_Uppsala   (2012-09-25)

  
Ptac, trp & lac regulated promoter

The Ptac promoter is a functional hybrid promoter, derived from the trp and
lac promoters, that are regulated by trp and lac [1]. This part also exist
together with lacI, part [BBa_K180000](/Part:BBa_K180000 "Part:BBa K180000")

[1] Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, Vol. 80, pp. 21-25

# Contribution by TU_Kaiserslautern 2020

**_Testing the influence of different IPTG-Concentrations on the induction of
the tac-promotor in Escherichia coli_**  
The tac promotor we used is an established strong _E. coli_ promotor. The
promotor is a hybrid between the trp and lac UV5 promotors (BioCat GmbH).
Replacing the -35 region of the lac UV5 promotor with the -35 region of the
stronger trp promotor makes this hybrid way more efficient (de Boer et al.,
1983). In addition to the -35 region the tac promotor also has a Pribnow box
sequence to increase the efficiency (de Boer et al., 1983). The activity of
the tac promotor can be repressed by a lac repressor and activated by inducing
with isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactoside (IPTG), so a high regulation is possible
(de Boer et al., 1983). The iGEM team iGEM12_Uppsala introduced the part
BBa_K864400 to iGEM first in 2012. It was improved by Evry_Paris-Saclay in
2017 and characterized by by SHSBNU_China in 2019. Our goal was to verify this
data.  

We wanted to help iGEM creating a big data bank of parts, because getting the
greatest possible knowledge is everything in science. We worked with the tac
promotor the whole time in E. coli to express the genetically code of our
protein. So, we wanted to know, which influence the IPTG concentration has on
the activity of the promotor. We transformed the pGEx-6P-1_baLac vector in E.
coli AD494 (DE3) competent cells. For selection we used Kanamycin and
Ampicillin resistance.

We induced six liquid cultures of E.coli AD494 (DE3) pGEX-6P-1_baLac with the
same optical density at 600 nm with different IPTG concentrations to compare
different influences on the expression of the gene for the protein BaLac
(Table 1). The cells grew at 17°C for 19 h. We took a sample before we induced
and after expression for 19 h. We lysed the latter to separate the pellet and
the soluble fraction with SDS-PAGE (Fig. 1).  

**Table 1: Concentration of the IPTG in the six different pistons.**

Piston  | Concentration IPTG [mM]  
---|---  
1  | 0.250  
2  | 0.375  
3  | 0.500  
4  | 1.000  
5  | 1.500  
6  | 2.500  
  
  

(A)  
![](https://2020.igem.org/wiki/images/a/a5/T--TU_Kaiserslautern--GEL_CO1.png)  
(B)  
![](https://2020.igem.org/wiki/images/1/10/T--TU_Kaiserslautern--GEL_CO2.png)  

**Fig. 1: SDS-PAGE of the test expression with different IPGT
concentrations.** We induced E.coli AD494 (DE) pGEX-6P-1_baLac with six
different IPTG concentrations. (A) shows the IPTG concentrations 1 3 (1: 0,25
mM; 2: 0,375 mM; 3: 0,5 mM), (B) shows the IPTG concentrations 4 6 (4: 1 mM;
5: 1,5 mM; 6: 2,5 mM). Samples were taken before induction and after induction
expressing for 19 h. The latter were disrupted by sonication and insoluble and
soluble fraction were separated. The red boxes show the produced translation
fusion protein (BaLac and GST). The western blot was detected by anti-GST-
antibodies (first antibody) and anti-Goat alkaline phosphatase conjugated
antibodies (second antibody). Marker: New England BioLabs ® Blue Protein
Standard Broad Range.  

In summary, we can say, that with increasing concentration of IPTG the
production of protein increases as well (Fig. 1). That means, that there must
have been a higher expression of the gene of interest (balac and gst). But you
have to keep in mind, that sometimes E. coli has problems to fold foreign
proteins correctly. This gets even worse if the expression of this protein is
high. Figure 1 (B) shows, that the more IPTG is used, the more protein is in
the insoluble fraction (pellet). That’s the reason why an IPTG concentration
of 0.5 mM has established itself in our protein production – there we got the
highest yield of soluble protein with the lowest concentration of IPTG.

_**References**_  

de Boer HA, Comstock LJ, Vasser M. The tac promoter: a functional hybrid
derived from the trp and lac promoters. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1983
Jan;80(1):21-5. doi: 10.1073/pnas.80.1.21. PMID: 6337371; PMCID: PMC393301.  
BioCat GmbH

  

  

### Improvement by Evry_Paris-Saclay 2017

This part has been improved to be the pPsiTac1, a strong psicose inducible
promoter. For more information on the improved part, please go to the page of
[Part:BBa_K2448016](/Part:BBa_K2448016 "Part:BBa K2448016").

### Characterization by SHSBNU_China 2019

### Improvement

This part is improved by SHSBNU_China 2019 as
[BBa_K3156000](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3156000)

### Description

In our design, the induction signal will be detected and stored in the plasmid
DNA sequence of our genetically modified E. coli. The bacteria will be
gathered from the capsule after it left human body and sent to lab for further
quantitative analysis in order to represent the inflammation level in colon.
Therefore, in our project, the fluorescence intensity will be the index that
represents levels of gut inflammation.  
Since then, we first needed to develop a standard quantitative measurement
protocol, so we studied the following articles: Zong, Y et al (2017)[1] and
Zhang, H. M. et al(2015).

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/7/7f/T--SHSBNU_China---gfp_zqd.png)
**Figure 1.We constructed our reporter circuit with sfgfp and pTac promoter**

Following reference, we determined the experimental procedure:  
Flat-bottom 96-well plates and sealing film were used throughout the study.
Bacteria harboring parts/circuits of interest were inoculated from plates to
LB medium and grown overnight (8−12 h, 1000 rpm, 37 °C, mB100-40 Thermo
Shaker). Ten microliters of each overnight culture was sequentially diluted
into 130 μL of fresh medium twice; the total dilution fold was 196. After
growing the diluted cultures for ∼3 h, we diluted the exponentially growing
cultures 700-fold using fresh medium; the dilution process was as follows: 10
μL of cell culture is added to 130 μL of M9 medium, which is followed by
diluting 3 μL of this into 147 μL. Then, cultivation continued (1000 rpm, 37
°C, mB100-40); atspecifictimepoints,a2−50μL aliquot of each culture was
transferred to a new plate containing 200 μL of PBS with 2 mg/mL kanamycin
preadded to terminate protein expression. For the time course of cell growth
after 700-fold dilution, OD 600 was recorded using Varioskan Flash (Thermal
Scientific); the time interval was 5 min.

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/4/49/T--SHSBNU_China---characterization-
step.jpeg) **Figure 2.Experimental procedure for recording the time course of
gene expression using flow cytometry.**

The graph below shows our result.

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/e/e5/T--SHSBNU_China---Ptac-result.png)
**Figure 1.Ptac response curve in medium copy number vector.** **Reference**

[1]Zong, Y., Zhang, H. M., Lyu, C., Ji, X., Hou, J., Guo, X., ... & Lou, C.
(2017). Insulated transcriptional elements enable precise design of genetic
circuits. Nature communications, 8(1), 52.  
[2]Zhang, H. M., Chen, S., Shi, H., Ji, W., Zong, Y., Ouyang, Q., & Lou, C.
(2015). Measurements of gene expression at steady state improve the
predictability of part assembly. ACS synthetic biology, 5(3), 269-273.

Sequence and Features  
Ptac, trp & lac regulated promoter</br>

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

## **1.[pTAC_RFP](/Part:BBa_K1934040 "Part:BBa K1934040") characterization**

### Description

pTAC promoter was taken from part
[BBa_K864400](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K864400). This promoter is a
hybrid of two operons: the trp and lac operons. This promoter is inducible by
IPTG and commonly used in _Escherichia coli_ for overproduction of proteins.
_E. coli_ NM522 strain that we used in our lab constitutively produces the
LacIq protein, a strong pTAC promoter repressor. However, in absence of IPTG,
we observed a strong leakage when plating our
[BBa_K1934000](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1934000) transformants.
Therefore, we decided to put a RFP reporter ORF under control of the pTAC
promoter to characterize the promoter-driven transcriptional noise.

### Expression of the pTAC-RFP fusion in presence of increasing amount of the
inductor IPTG

##### Experimental design

The RFP coding sequence ([BBa_E1010](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_E1010))
was placed _in silico_ under the control of the pTAC promoter
([BBa_K864400](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K864400)), a strong RBS
([BBa_B0030](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_B0030)) and a bidirectional
terminator ([BBa_B0011](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_B0011)). IDT performed
the DNA synthesis and delivered the part as gBlock. The construct was cloned
by conventional ligation into pSB1C3 plasmid and then transformed into _E.
coli_ NM522 strain. In order to study the efficiency of the pTAC promoter for
the overproduction of proteins, recombinant clones were grown overnight in LB
at 37°C in duplicate in three different induction conditions (IPTG
concentrations): 0 mmol.L-1, 1 mmol.L-1 and 5 mmol.L-1. OD600 of each culture
was measured every hour over six hours. _E. coli_ NM522 strain was grown
overnight in LB at 37°C in the same three induction conditions as control.

##### Results

  * **Noise of the pTAC: fluorescence in absence of IPTG**

We studied the noise of the promoter by comparing the normalized fluorescence
between the construction and the NM522 strain without any induction of IPTG.

![](http://2016.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fc/INSA-Lyon_RFP-NM522.jpg)**Figure 1.
Fluorescence/OD 600 comparison between NM522 with or without the plasmid
(RFP). ** Fluorescence of each sample was measured every hour over six hours
with ChemiDoc Imaging system and was normalized by dividing by the OD600.
After one hour, a significant expression difference was noticed; NM522 strain
with plasmid revealed a higher protein expression.

An ANOVA was made to see if there was a time effect between the two
populations. We obtained a p-value of 0.61, suggesting that time had no effect
on pTAC-RFP expression in absence of IPTG (α<0.05). Given this result, we
gathered data to analyze if there was a significant difference between the two
strains. A Student test was performed with the variance not equal. The p-value
of 5.44*10-4 indicated that the strain carrying pTAC-RFP transcriptional
fusion displayed a higher fluorescence than the control strain.

  * **pTAC induction by increasing concentration of IPTG**

Then we studied the induction of the promoter by comparing the normalized
fluorescence of the construction under the induction of [IPTG] = 0 and 1
mmol.L-1.

![](http://2016.igem.org/wiki/images/b/bd/INSA-Lyon_0vs1.jpg)**Figure 2.
Fluorescence/OD 600 comparison between NM522 strains with plasmid (RFP) and
with IPTG induction of 0 or 1 mmol.L-1. ** Fluorescence of each sample was
measured every hour over six hours with ChemiDoc Imaging system and was
normalized by dividing by the OD600. After one hour, a significant expression
difference was noticed; IPTG induction enables a higher protein expression
rate.

An ANOVA test was made to see if there was a time effect between the two
populations. A p-value of 0.21 indicated that time had no effect on the
fluorescence induction (α<0.05). Data was therefore gathered in order to
compare the strain fluorescence with 1 mmol.L-1 IPTG and no IPTG. We realized
a Student test with the variance not equal and obtained a p-value of
8.57*10-3, showing a difference of fluorescence due to the presence of IPTG in
the medium.

Finally, we compared the expression of the pTAC-RFP transcriptional fusion in
2 concentrations of IPTG: 1 and 5 mmol.L-1.

![](http://2016.igem.org/wiki/images/6/64/INSA-Lyon_1vs5.jpg)**Figure 3.
Fluorescence/OD 600 comparison between NM522 strains with plasmid (RFP) and
with IPTG induction of 1 or 5 mmol.L-1 ** Fluorescence of each sample was
measured every hour over six hours with ChemiDoc Imaging system and was
normalized by dividing by the OD600. Even after six hours of incubation, no
significant expression difference was observed, protein expression rate was
not correlated with the concentration of IPTG.

An ANOVA was made to see if there was a time effect between the two
populations. A p-value of 0.06 indicated that time had no effect (α<0.05).
From there, we could gather the data to analyze if there was a significant
difference between the two concentrations of IPTG.

We realized a Student test with the variance not equal and obtained a p-value
of 0.61, indicating that no significant difference of fluorescence was
observed with the rise of IPTG concentration.

### Conclusion

In the case of RFP, the pTAC promoter seemed to not enable a gene tune because
statistics showed that there was a significant noise, even in the absence of
IPTG.

## **2.[pTAC_CFP](/Part:BBa_K1934050 "Part:BBa K1934050") characterization**

### Description

pTAC promoter was taken from part [part
BBa_K864400](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K864400) . This promoter is a
hybrid of two operons: the trp and lac operons.This promoter is inducible by
IPTG and commonly used in _Escherichia coli_ for overproduction of proteins.
_Escherichia coli_ NM522 strain that we used in our lab constitutively express
the LacIq protein, a strong pTAC promoter repressor. However, in absence of
IPTG, we observed a strong leakage when plating our
[BBa_K1934000](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K1934000) transformants.
Therefore, we decided to put a CFP reporter ORF under control of the pTAC
promoter to characterize the promoter-driven transcriptional noise.

### Expression of the pTAC-CFP fusion in presence of increasing amount of the
inductor IPTG

##### Experimental design

The CFP coding sequence ([BBa_E2020](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_E2020))
was placed _in silico_ under the control of the pTAC promoter
([BBa_K864400](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K864400)), a strong RBS
([BBa_B0030](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_B0030)) and a bidirectional
terminator ([BBa_B0011](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_B0011)). IDT performed
the DNA synthesis and delivered the part as gBlock. The construct was cloned
by conventional ligation into pSB1C3 plasmid and then transformed into _E.
coli_ NM522 strain. In order to study the efficiency of the pTAC promoter for
the overproduction of proteins, recombinant clones were grown overnight in LB
at 37°C in duplicate in three different induction conditions (IPTG
concentrations): 0 mmol.L-1, 1 mmol.L-1 and 5 mmol.L-1. OD600 of each culture
was measured every hour over six hours. _E. coli_ NM522 strain was grown
overnight in LB at 37°C in the same three induction conditions as control.

##### Results

  * **Noise of the pTAC: fluorescence in absence of IPTG**

We studied the noise of the promoter by comparing the normalized fluorescence
between the construction and the NM522 strain without any induction of IPTG.

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/5/59/T--INSA-Lyon--
CFPvsNM522.jpeg)**Figure 1. Fluorescence/OD 600 comparison between NM522 with
or without the plasmid (CFP). ** Fluorescence of each sample was measured
every hour over six hours with ChemiDoc Imaging system and was normalized by
dividing by the OD600. After one hour, a significant expression difference was
noticed; NM522 strain with plasmid revealed a higher protein expression.

An ANOVA was made to see if there was a time effect between the two
populations. We obtain a p-value of 0.96, suggesting that time had no effect
on pTAC-CFP expression in absence of IPTG (α<0.05). Given this result, we
gathered data to analyze if there was a significant difference between the two
strains. A Student test was performed with the variance not equal. The p-value
of 0.10 indicated that the strain carrying pTAC-CFP transcriptional fusion
didn’t display a significant fluorescence difference with the control strain.

  * **pTAC induction by increasing concentration of IPTG**

Then we studied the induction of the promoter by comparing the normalized
fluorescence of the construction under the induction of [IPTG] = 0 and 1
mmol.L-1.

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/0/02/T--INSA-Lyon--
CFP_0vs1.jpeg)**Figure 2. Fluorescence/OD 600 comparison between NM522 strains
with plasmid (CFP) and with IPTG induction of 0 or 1 mmol.L-1. ** Fluorescence
of each sample was measured every hour over six hours with ChemiDoc Imaging
system and was normalized by dividing by the OD600. After one hour, a
significant expression difference was noticed; IPTG induction enabled a higher
protein expression rate.

An ANOVA test was made to see if there was a time effect between the two
populations. A p-value of 0.05 indicated that time had no effect on the
fluorescence induction (α<0.05). Data was therefore gathered in order to
compare the strain fluorescence with 1 mmol.L-1 IPTG and no IPTG. We realized
a Student test with the variance not equal and obtained a p-value of
4.64*10-10, showing a significant difference of fluorescence due to the
presence of IPTG in the medium.

Finally, we compared the expression of the pTAC-CFP transcriptional fusion in
2 concentrations of IPTG: 1 and 5 mmol.L-1.

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/a/a4/T--INSA-Lyon--
CFP_1vs5.jpeg)**Figure 3. Fluorescence/OD 600 comparison between NM522 strains
with plasmid (CFP) and with IPTG induction of 1 or 5 mmol.L-1 ** Fluorescence
of each sample was measured every hour during six hours with ChemiDoc Imaging
system and was normalized by dividing by the OD600. Even after six hours of
incubation, no significant expression difference could be detected, protein
expression rate was not correlated with the concentration of IPTG.

An ANOVA was made to see if there was a time effect between the two
populations. A p-value of 0.55 indicated that time had no effect (α<0.05).
From there, we gathered data to analyze if there was a significant difference
between the two concentrations of IPTG. We realized a Student test with the
variance not equal and obtained a p-value of 0.54, indicating that no
significant difference of fluorescence was observed with the rise of IPTG
concentration.

### Conclusion

In the case of CFP, the pTAC promoter seemed to enable a gene tune because
there wasn’t a differential gene expression in absence of IPTG, so a
significant noise wasn’t measured.

## Team JUN_China 2019: Fluorescent characterization of the Tac promoter

Tac promoter is a hybrid of two operons: the trp and lac operons and it is
inducible by IPTG.In our project, we built a number of parts which also
contains a large number of construct intermediates using the tac promoter. The
tac promoter is critical in our entire project, so we used green and red
fluorescent protein to characterize its effectiveness. At the same time, we
explored the changes in expression intensity of green and red fluorescent
protein under the control of tac promoter by IPTG inducing at different times.

Experiment design:

We ligated the _eGFP_ and _RFP_ gene into the loop vector pZM1 (Ptac)
containing the inducible tac promoter respectively and transfered _eGFP_ and
_RFP_ into our chassis microorganism: _Corynebacterium glutamicum_ F343 to
carry out fermentation experiment. We added 1mmol/L IPTG to the fermentation
broth at 0h, 1h, and 2h respectively and measured the fluorescence intensity
and cell growth at different times to investigate whether the inducing
capability of tac promoter was different at different induction times.

During the detection process, the cells were washed using PBS and the cells
were diluted by appropriate multiples according to the measurement range of
the instrument. The growth state and fluorescence intensity of the cells were
detected using 96-well plates. The green fluorescent protein has an excitation
wavelength of 488 nm, an emission wavelength of 517 nm. The red fluorescent
protein excitation wavelength is 560 nm, and the emission wavelength is 630
nm.

Result:

We used the infinite 200Pro instrument to measure green and red fluorescent
protein and OD600 measurement. The relevant data are shown below:

[![Induce.png](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a3/Induce.png/400px-
Induce.png)](/File:Induce.png)

The data showed:

1.When inducing at 0 hour, the highest fluorescence value were at 16 hours,
and there was a gradual decrease in data from 24 hours to 48 hours. This may
due to the degradation of fluorescent protein.

2.The fluorescence values induced at 1 hour were relatively stable, but when
at 16 hours the fluorescence value was best.

3.The expression of GFP was the worst when inducing at 2 hour.

[![Induce-2.png](/wiki/images/thumb/f/fb/Induce-2.png/400px-
Induce-2.png)](/File:Induce-2.png)

Red fluorescent protein data showed that the expression of the red fluorescent
protein was best when inducing at two hours and the value reached about 17,000
ua at 24 hours. The optimal induction time of red fluorescent protein
expression was the same as the optimal induction time of polymerase in our
project, which was induced at two hours after fermentation, and the product
expression was highest. The data indicated that induction at different times,
the expression of the target gene and the yield of the product were different.

  

## Team GreatBay_SZ 2020

We have used pTac to express the key protein of our project: _Geobacter
sulfurreducens_ ' pilin-based electrically conductive protein nanowires
(e-PNs). The gene circuit includes this tac promoter which promotes the pilin
gene( _pilA_ ) to express protein monomers; the monomers are later assembled
into protein nanowires by the TypeIV pilin assembly system, which is
constructed from the gene cluster at the downstream of the pilin gene(figure
1).

![](https://2020.igem.org/wiki/images/6/64/T--GreatBay_SZ--circuit2.png)

###### Figure 1: **A** Construction of BIOT gene circuit

The e-PN can be successfully expressed by express this part under the control
of this pTac, and the result was verified by Western Blot(figure 2).

![](https://2020.igem.org/wiki/images/4/4e/T--GreatBay_SZ--western.png)

###### Figure 2: Western Blot of the cell lysis of BIOT and BIOT-His(express
e-PN and e-PN-His respectively); Antibody: Anti-His tag; e-PN-His: 7.7 kDa.

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K864400)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/ecoli  
//direction/forward  
//promoter  
//regulation/positive  
//rnap/prokaryote/ecoli/sigma70

Parameters

control| trp, lac| direction| forward| n/a| Hybrid promoter (trp & lac
regulated -- tac pR)

