---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K554004"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,collections, immune_regulation, inflammatory] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554004)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554004:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554004:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K554004)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[1 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K554004)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K554004)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K554004

Designed by: UNICAMP EMSE Brazil team   Group: iGEM11_Brazil-France
(2011-09-21)

IL10

IL-10 is an anti-inflammatory interleukin, produced mainly by monocytes. It is
responsible for down-regulating the synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines
like IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-3, TNFα (Th1 cytokines), class II MHC, and co-stimulatory
molecules on macrophages. IL-10 also displays potent abilities to suppress the
antigen presentation capacity of APCs (Antigen Presenting Cells), and it is
also responsible for enhancing B cell survival, proliferation and antibody
secretion. In this scenario IL-10 favors Th2 response (Elenkov & Chrousos,
1999).

Some studies suggested that IL-10 acts as immunoregulator in intestinal tract.
For example Steidler et al (2000) used a genetically modified Lactococcus
lacti expressing IL-10 to treat mice with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD),
and the inflammatory response signals were reduced in 50%. IBD is an
autoimmune disease which, unlike the immune response found in intestinal tract
due to stress, involves a Th1 polarization and inflammation.

## Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

### Usage and Biology

This part is used by [UNICAMP-EMSE Brazil
team](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-EMSE_Brazil) as the final product of
the [NO sensor device/ IL-10 producer](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-
EMSE_Brazil/Project#Device_2:_NO_sensor.2FIL-10_producer) ("Device 2", which
senses NO levels and responds by producing and secreting IL-10. This part is
shown as green in the following schema:

[![UNICAMP EMSE NO device
schema.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/9/96/UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg/600px-
UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg)

The team chooses IL-10 to impair inflammatory response mediated by Th1
overstimulation (due to Device 1 action), to reach an equilibrium between
immune stimulation (Th1) and suppression (Th2).

In the folllowing schema you can have a more detailed view of the [NO sensor
device/ IL-10 producer](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-
EMSE_Brazil/Project#Device_2:_NO_sensor.2FIL-10_producer) ("Device 2")
functioning:

[![UNICAMP EMSE NO device schema
PARTS.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/2/22/UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema_PARTS.jpg/700px-
UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema_PARTS.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema_PARTS.jpg)

## Three-dimensional structure representation

You can find below a tridimensional structure of _Homo sapiens_ IL-10 protein
(retrieved from PDB 2h24, Yoon et al. 2006), solved by X-Ray crystallography
at 2.0Å. This is a jmol applet, in which you can interactively see the protein
format:  

  

## MIT_MAHE 2020

**Usage and Biology**

IL-10 is a major immune-regulatory cytokine that acts on many cells of the
immune system where it has profound anti-inflammatory functions, limiting
excessive tissue disruption caused by inflammation. It is responsible for
down-regulating the synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines like IFN-γ, IL-2,
IL-3, TNFα (Th1 cytokines). IL-10 even displays potent abilities to suppress
the antigen presentation capacity of APCs (Antigen Presenting Cells) such as
macrophages and monocytes and inhibits their release of pro-inflammatory
cytokines including granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor/ GM-CSF,
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor/ G-CSF, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-
alpha (R de Waal Malefyt et al., 1991) (F. Willems et al., 1994) (S. I.
Hashimoto et al., 2001). It also interferes with antigen presentation by
reducing the expression of MHC-class II and co-stimulatory molecules, thereby
inhibiting their ability to induce T-cell activation (K. Frei et al., 1994).
IL-10 is also responsible for enhancing B cell survival, proliferation, and
antibody secretion.

Some studies suggested that IL-10 acts as an immunoregulator in the intestinal
tract. For example, Steidler et al., 2000, used a genetically modified
Lactococcus lacti expressing IL-10 to treat mice with Inflammatory Bowel
Disease (IBD), and the inflammatory response signals were reduced by 50%.

Human IL-10 (hIL-10) has been shown to exist in solution predominantly as a
homodimer, composed of two polypeptide chains of 160 amino acids each. The
subunits within the dimer are non-covalently associated, although each subunit
contains two intra-chain disulfide bonds, between residues 12 and 108, and
between residues 62 and 114. On the basis of its high helical content and
limited sequence similarity, it has been postulated that IL-10 is a member of
a large family of helical cytokines and growth factors, many of which have
been characterized structurally (A. Zdanov et al., 1995).

Over time the IL-10's function has emerged as the treatment of tumor-bearing
mice has been shown to inhibit tumor metastasis (L.M. Zheng et al., 1996).
Additional investigation by multiple laboratories has generated data that
further supports IL-10's immunostimulatory capacity in an immunoncology
context. Expression of IL-10 from transfected tumor cell lines in IL-10
transgenic mice or dosing with IL-10 leads to control of primary tumor growth
and decreased metastatic burden (S. Fujii et al., 2001) (R.M. Berman et al.,
1996).

### References

Steidler L, Hans W, Schotte L, Neirynck S, Obermeier F, Falk W, Fiers W,
Remaut E. Treatment of murine colitis by Lactococcus lactis secreting
interleukin-10, Science 289. 2000. 1352–1355. [Link to
Pubmed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10958782)

Yoon, S.I., Logsdon, N.J., Sheikh, F., Donnelly, R.P., Walter, M.R.
Conformational changes mediate interleukin-10 receptor 2 (IL-10R2) binding to
IL-10 and assembly of the signaling complex. Journal: (2006) J.Biol.Chem. 281:
35088-35096 [Link to
PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=PubMed&dopt=Abstract&list_uids=16982608)

Elenkov IJ, Chrousos GP. Stress Hormones, Th1/Th2 patterns, Pro/Anti-
inflammatory Cytokines and Susceptibility to Disease. Trends Endocrinol Metab.
1999 Nov;10(9):359-368. [Link to Pubmed
](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10511695)

de Waal Malefyt, R., Abrams, J., Bennett, B., Figdor, C. G., & de Vries, J. E.
(1991). Interleukin 10(IL-10) inhibits cytokine synthesis by human monocytes:
an autoregulatory role of IL-10 produced by monocytes. The Journal of
experimental medicine, 174(5), 1209–1220.
<https://doi.org/10.1084/jem.174.5.1209>

Willems, F., Marchant, A., Delville, J. P., Gérard, C., Delvaux, A., Velu, T.,
de Boer, M., & Goldman, M. (1994). Interleukin-10 inhibits B7 and
intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression on human monocytes. European
journal of immunology, 24(4), 1007–1009.
<https://doi.org/10.1002/eji.1830240435>

Hashimoto, S. I., Komuro, I., Yamada, M., & Akagawa, K. S. (2001). IL-10
inhibits granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor-dependent human
monocyte survival at the early stage of the culture and inhibits the
generation of macrophages. Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md.: 1950),
167(7), 3619–3625. <https://doi.org/10.4049/jimmunol.167.7.3619>

Frei, K., Lins, H., Schwerdel, C., & Fontana, A. (1994). Antigen presentation
in the central nervous system. The inhibitory effect of IL-10 on MHC class II
expression and production of cytokines depends on the inducing signals and the
type of cell analyzed. Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md.: 1950), 152(6),
2720–2728.

Zdanov, A., Schalk-Hihi, C., Gustchina, A., Tsang, M., Weatherbee, J., &
Wlodawer, A. (1995). Crystal structure of interleukin-10 reveals the
functional dimer with an unexpected topological similarity to interferon
gamma. Structure (London, England: 1993), 3(6), 591–601.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/s0969-2126(01)00193-9>

Zheng, L. M., Ojcius, D. M., Garaud, F., Roth, C., Maxwell, E., Li, Z., Rong,
H., Chen, J., Wang, X. Y., Catino, J. J., & King, I. (1996). Interleukin-10
inhibits tumor metastasis through an NK cell-dependent mechanism. The Journal
of experimental medicine, 184(2), 579–584.
<https://doi.org/10.1084/jem.184.2.579>

Fujii, S., Shimizu, K., Shimizu, T., & Lotze, M. T. (2001). Interleukin-10
promotes the maintenance of antitumor CD8(+) T-cell effector function in situ.
Blood, 98(7), 2143–2151. <https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.v98.7.2143>

Berman, R. M., Suzuki, T., Tahara, H., Robbins, P. D., Narula, S. K., & Lotze,
M. T. (1996). Systemic administration of cellular IL-10 induces an effective,
specific, and long-lived immune response against established tumors in mice.
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md.: 1950), 157(1), 231–238.

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K554004)]

Categories

//collections/immune_regulation/inflammatory

Parameters

None|

