---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K823003"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, bsubtilis, promoter, regulation, constitutive, rnap, prokaryote, subtilis, sigmaa] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823003)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823003:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K823003:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K823003)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[31 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K823003)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K823003)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K823003

Designed by: Korinna Kraft   Group: iGEM12_LMU-Munich   (2012-07-16)

Pveg

P _veg_ is a strong, constitutive promoter of _Bacillus subtilis_.

  

### Usage and Biology

  

P _veg_ is known to show a strong constitutive activity during the vegetative
growth phase and sporulation. This promoter is important for the transcription
of the _veg_ gene, which plays a role during sporulation [(Fukushima _et al._
,
2003)](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=J.%20Biochem.%2C%20133%20%284%29%3A%20475%E2%80%93483:).
P _veg_ was measured by using the reporter gene _lacZ_. For more Details visit
the [Data of the constitutive promoters](http://2012.igem.org/Team:LMU-
Munich/Data/Constitutive) of the LMU-Munich Team 2012 or get an overview of
our whole project [**Bead** zillus](http://2012.igem.org/Team:LMU-Munich).

  

### Evaluation

  
This part was also evaluated in the publication [The _Bacillus_ BioBrick Box:
generation and evaluation of essential genetic building blocks for
standardized work with _Bacillus
subtilis_](http://www.jbioleng.org/content/7/1/29) by Radeck _et al._.

### β-galactosidase assay

  

The two constitutive promoters **P _liaG_** and **P _veg_** were evaluated
with the reporter vector pSB _Bs_ 1C- _lacZ_ which contains the lacZ reporter
gene ( **Fig.1** ).

  

|

[![Englisch Auswertung PliaG
Pveg.png](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b8/Englisch_Auswertung_PliaG_Pveg.png/400px-
Englisch_Auswertung_PliaG_Pveg.png)](/File:Englisch_Auswertung_PliaG_Pveg.png)  
  
---  
|

**Fig. 1: β-galactosidase assay and growth curve of strains carrying the
promoters P _liaG_ (black) and P _veg_ (grey) fused to _lacZ_**.
β-galactosidase activity (Miller Units) and the growth curve values are the
average of two independent clones with their standard deviation. Experiment
shows representative data from three independent experiments.  
  
---  
  
  

Promoter activity leads to the expression of the β-galactosidase. The
β-galactosidase assay of the constitutive _Bacillus_ promoters P _veg_ and P
_liaG_ was repeated three times. The graph shows data of one representative
experiment. In the beginning of the growth curve both promoters show only low
activity before it increases to a maximum before it decreases to the begininng
level after about seven hours (Data not shown). Summing up, the course of
activity of both promoters P _veg_ and P _liaG_ is very similar based on the
growth curve. The highest β-galactosidase activity and therefore the highest
activity of the promoter P _veg_ with a maximum of 65 Miller units can be
found during the transition from the logarithmic to the stationary phase. This
is about five times higher than the acitivity of the promoter P _liaG_ with a
maximum activity of about 12 Miller Units.

  
  

### Sequence and Features

This part was amplified from the genom of _B. subtilis_.

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K823003)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/bsubtilis  
//promoter  
//regulation/constitutive  
//rnap/prokaryote/subtilis/sigmaa

Parameters

None|

