---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K861090"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K861090)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K861090:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K861090:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K861090)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 10 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[8 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K861090)

[2 Twins](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K861090)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K861090)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K861090

Designed by: Kuanwei Sheng   Group: iGEM12_WHU-China   (2012-09-18)

YhjH Gene From _E.coli str. K12_

YhjH protein contains a EAL domain to catalyze c-di-GMP into GMP. c-di-GMP is
a magic molecule that can activate bcsB gene, a major component of cellulose
synthetase complex. Also, c-di-GMP can serve as a second messager to inhibit
motility and increse biofilm formation and adhesion of bacteria. Thus, the
expression of YhjH gene can make the bacteria more motile.

### Usage and Biology

YhjH protein contains a EAL domain to catalyze c-di-GMP into GMP. c-di-GMP is
a magic molecule that can activate bcsB gene, a major component of cellulose
synthetase complex. Also, c-di-GMP can serve as a second messager to inhibit
motility and increse biofilm formation and adhesion of bacteria. Thus, the
expression of YhjH gene can make the bacteria more motile.

### Characterization of yhjH gene by Tec Chihuahua

The existing biopart (BBa_K861090), which is in iGEM's Parts Registry since
2012, was improved by adding a T7 promoter, RBS and T7 terminator to its
sequence; which resulted in the creation of our new composite BioBrick®
<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K2471001> (BBa_K2471001). The function of the
enzyme encoded by the yhjH gene is to promote motility whilst reducing biofilm
production; to demonstrate this, _Escherichia coli_ BL21(DE3) was transformed
with the new BioBrick®, to subsequently, study bacterial adherence by
performing a colorimetric absorbance study. Greater adhesion was observed per
area in the transformed bacteria with the composite yhjH BioBrick® than in the
normal, non-transformed ones. This is because, by promoting motility, the
bacteria were able to reach more area within the wells, and thus, form more
biofilm although its normal production was being suppressed. Based on this, we
can affirm that the improved yhjH BioBrick® works and that it's expressed
correctly in _Escherichia coli_ BL21(DE3).

Bacteria often thrive in surface-associated multicellular communities that
have advantages over individual cells, such as protection against unfavorable
environmental conditions (predation, the presence of antimicrobials, host's
immune response, etcetera). Biofilms are sessile communities, with
microorganisms embedded within a matrix and attached to a surface (Verstraeten
et al., 2008). Another mechanism for bacteria to cope with changes in the
surrounding is to actively leave unfavorable environments for more fitting
ones. Thus, being motile provides a survival advantage to many bacteria. The
flagella present in many species provides them with an efficient form of
locomotion through liquid and viscous environments, as well as on surfaces
(Paulick et al., 2009).

The improvement of the yhjH gene found in iGEM's Parts Registry (BBa_K861090)
was done by adding a T7 promoter and RBS
<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K525998> (BBa_K525998) and a T1 terminator
<http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_B0010> (BBa_B0010) to its sequence, in order
to make the expression of the protein of interest possible; the result was the
creation of one of our three composite BioBricks (BBa_K2471001). Escherichia
coli BL21(DE3) was transformed with it in order to characterize it using an
absorbance-based colorimetric protocol (to see specifications visit protocols
section).

[![Placayhjh.png](/wiki/images/thumb/7/71/Placayhjh.png/500px-
Placayhjh.png.jpeg)](/File:Placayhjh.png)

**Figure 1.** ELISA microplate where the colorimetric protocol was carried
out.

  
  

Since the equipment was unable to correctly register the readings, a 1:10 and
1:20 dilution of the original ELISA microplate was made for the sake of
recording the absorbance values. In addition, this dilution made possible to
visualize the difference in colorant at sight. Only the 1:10 was taken into
consideration. As shown in Figure 1, the colorant intensity is higher in the
yhjH transformation than in the normal bacteria.

[![Calibcurve.png](/wiki/images/thumb/a/a2/Calibcurve.png/500px-
Calibcurve.png)](/File:Calibcurve.png)

**Figure 2.** Calibration curve used to interpret the obtained absorbance
values.

The calibration curve shown in Figure 2 was used to interpret the results.
Using the equation generated from the curve, the OD was calculated and based
on the OD obtained, both types of bacteria were classified as non-adherent,
weakly, moderately and strongly adherent. The untransformed bacteria were
classified as weakly adherent, while the one transformed with the yhjH
BioBrick was cataloged as moderately adherent.

The function of this gene is to enhance motility whilst reducing biofilm
formation. Greater adherence was observed in the bacteria transformed with our
BioBrick than compared to the normal, untransformed one. This was thanks to it
being more motile, which allows the bacteria to reach more area within the
well. Although the biofilm formation was inhibited, the increased motility
allowed the bacteria to cover a larger area, giving higher absorbance values.
This is why the project makes use of two more genes, aiiA and epsE, which
tackle biofilm formation and the increased motility, respectively; it's the
use of the three genes that really make the whole project work correctly.
Summarizing, we can state that the improved yhjH BioBrick does work and that
it's correctly being expressed in the E. coli BL21(DE3).

#### **References**

Paulick A., et al. (2009) Two different stator systems drive a single polar
flagellum in Shewanella oneidensis MR-1. Mol. Microbiol. 71:836–850
[[1]](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19170881)</p>

Verstraeten N., et al. (2008) Living on a surface: swarming and biofilm
formation. Trends Microbiol. 16:496–506
[[2]](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18775660)

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

</body> </html>

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K861090 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 2.8 ± 9.0%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K861090)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

