---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K346002"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,function, sensor, metal, promoter, regulation] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K346002)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K346002:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K346002:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K346002)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[21 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K346002)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K346002)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K346002

Designed by: Qianzhu Wu & Mei Chen   Group: iGEM10_Peking   (2010-10-12)

PmerT promoter (mercury-responsive)

  
This part, PmerT, is a promoter from Tn21 mercury resistance (mer) operon. The
regulatory region of mer operon consists of two tightly overlapped,
divergently oriented promoters – Pr and Ptpad.(Park, Wireman et al. 1992). Pr
is the promoter of the regulatory protein gene, _merR_ , and Ptpcad is for the
transcription of the structure gene – _merPTAD_. Both of them are called
_merOP_ as a whole.

* * *

[![MerR-dimer.jpg](/wiki/images/f/f7/MerR-dimer.jpg)](/File:MerR-dimer.jpg)

**Fig.1. The mechanism of MerR mediated transcriptional activation.** (A) The
dimeric MerR regulator binds to the operator region of the promoter and
recruits RNA polymerase, forming a ternary complex. Transcription is slightly
repressed because the apo-MerR regulator dimer has bent the promoter DNA such
that RNA polymerase does not contact it properly. (B) Upon binding the cognate
metal ions (shown as cyan circles) the metallated MerR homodimer causes a
realignment of the promoter such that RNA polymerase contacts the -35 and -10
sequences leading to open complex formation and transcription. Adapted from
Brown et al.

* * *

The key sequence for MerR’s binding is a region of interrupted dyad symmetry
(19bp) located between the -35 and -10 haxamers of Ptpcad (The top strand).
And the structure of Pr (botton strand) is similar to Ptpcad in a divergent
orientation. The -10 hexamers of Ptpcad and Pr actually overlap by four bases.
When the apo-MerR dimer bind to the dyad symmetrical operator DNA between the
-35 and – 10 elements of mercury inducible promoter, PmerT, which has a
unusually long spacer of 19 bp for MerR to bind on, the binding of RNA
polymerase is inhibited(Fig.2). The Hg-bound MerR can result in an a
structural distortion of PmerT, allowing the RNA polymerase contacts to be
made, leading to the expression of downstream genes. This model of
transcription activation indicates that the apo-MerR and Hg-bound MerR have a
competing relationship. The threshold of PmerT is controlled by the expression
level of MerR. As a consequence, the sensitivity of Hg(II) in cell can be
manipulated.

[![PmerT111.jpg](/wiki/images/c/c6/PmerT111.jpg)](/File:PmerT111.jpg)

**Fig.2. DNA sequence of the Tn21 mer operon promoter region.** The MerR
binding site on PmerT is marked by a box. The -35 and -10 regions for both
PmerR and PmerTPAD are marked with boxes, and the dyad symmetrical DNA
sequence that MerR recognizes and binds to is marked with arrows under the DNA
sequence. The divergently oriented promoters are marked by blue box and purple
box, respectively.

* * *

**For more information, please check 'Experience' and our wiki!**

* * *

### BEAS_China 2019: Experimental Characterization

**BEAS_China 2019 used BBa_K346002 as the promoter of GFP in our basic mercury
sensor design: J23 family-merR-pMerT-sfGFP-terminator.** This sensor has a
constitutive promoter (J23 family) that drives the expression of an mercury
receptor MerR, which would de-repress its cognate promoter merR on murcury
binding and trigger the expression of a reporter gene, gfp.

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/b/b1/T--BEAS_China--
Description_Basic_sensor_Principle.png)

###### Figure 3: The scheme of basic sensor design.

We select three constitutive promoters of varying strengths from iGEM promoter
library (Fig. 4A). The sensors were then compared under various HgNO3
induction conditions (Fig. 4B). The results showed that the weaker the
promoter (that is, the lower the MerR receptor concentration), the more
sensitive and higher the dynamic range of the sensor.

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/6/6c/T--BEAS_China--
Demonstration_Fig_1a_%26_1b.png)

###### Figure 4: **A** Different constitutively J23 family promoter measured
strength (Data source: iGEM) **B** Tuning mercury receptor merR’s
intracellular density by varying the strength of J23 prmoter

We fitted the sensors’ dose–response curves to a Hill function-based
biochemical model to describe their input-output relationships. (Fig 5 and
Table 1)

  * The Hill constant EC50 is the inducer concentration that provokes half-maximal activation of a sensor; EC50 is negatively correlated with sensitivity.

  * KTop is the sensor’s maximum output expression level; KTop is positively correlated with output amplitude.

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/d/d0/T--BEAS_China--
Demonstration_Fig_2.png)

###### Figure 5: The equation used to fit the sensors’ dose–response curves to
a Hill function based biochemical model to describe their input-GFPput
relationships

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/2/2a/T--BEAS_China--
Demonstration_Table1.png)

###### Table 1: Best fits for the characterized response of the various
sensors circuits in this study

Here, EC50 showed a 2.7-fold decrease and KTop showed a 3.5-fold increase from
high to low MerR levels (Fig. 6a & 6b ), confirming that the mercury sensor’s
sensitivity and output amplitude were both increased while the MerR
intracellular concentration was decreased.

![](https://2019.igem.org/wiki/images/5/56/T--BEAS_China--
Demonstration_Fig_3A_%26_3B.png)

###### Figure 6: The maximum output (KTop) and EC50 of the sensor’s dose
response against the relevant intracellular MerR concentrations

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K346002)]

Categories

//function/sensor/metal  
//promoter  
//regulation

Parameters

chassis| it works in DH5 alpha| n/a| PmerT promoter (mercury-responsive)

