---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K540001"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,function, sensor, metal, promoter, regulation] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K540001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K540001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K540001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K540001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Issues

[6 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K540001)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K540001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K540001

Designed by: Mathilde Dumond   Group: iGEM11_LYON-Biosciences_INSA_ENS
(2011-09-15)

rcn, cobalt-sensitive promoter

P _rcn_ is a promoter that is activated by cobalt. The RcnR repressor binds to
the promoter by default. When enough cobalt molecules accumulate in the cell
cytoplasm, the cobalt ions bind to the RcnR repressor and prevent its fixation
on the rcn promoter.

Prcn is also activated by nickel, but we have not characterized this aspect.

## Characterization

  

Kinetic Mesurement

* * *

  
**Important : this characterization hasn't been done with this biobrick and an
iGEM Gfp. It has been done with the wild type promoter. The part we provide
contains the exact sequence of the promoter but a silent mutation to remove a
PstI site. The GFP used here, is a stable GFP.**

In order to determine wether _rcn_ promoter is inducible by cobalt or not, a
kinetic of the fluorescence (excitation 490nm, emission 510nm) of the two
following strains has been done:  
NM522/p157 where p157 is a plasmid containing a fusion P _rcn_ -stable GFP (=
pPROBE OT′ carrying the gfp coding sequence under the control of the rcnA
promoter, described in Appl Environ Microbiol. 2009 March; 75(6): 1723–1733).  
NM522/p115 where P115 is the control plasmid pPROBE OT′.

Both strains are cultivated with (25µM) or without cobalt. 1ml of bacteria is
added to a mix of 100ml of M63G medium + 1ml of spectinomycin in a 250ml
erlen. The erlens are put in a 37°C bath with a 270rpm agitation. Every hour,
a 3mL and 1mL culture sampling are done for a fluorescence measurement and an
OD(600nm) measurement respectively. As we expected a peak of expression during
the early exponential phase (personnal communication of Camille
Bleriot),samplings are done every half hour during that time. The measurements
are stopped when the OD reaches 1. A last sampling is done after an overnight
growth.

The experiment has been performed in triplicate by 3 different students during
the same day. The results shown below are the mean values obtained from the 3
operators.

  
![INSA-ENS_Prcn-
Gfp_FluoDo%3Dft.png](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/7/7f/INSA-ENS_Prcn-
Gfp_FluoDo%3Dft.png)

  

This graph shows that the strain NM522/p115 (carrying a control plasmid)
exhibits only residual fluorescent activity and does not respond at all to
cobalt. Whereas the strain NM522/p157 (carrying a plasmid with GFP under the
control of _rcn_ promoter) responds spectacularly well to cobalt: a drastic
increase of the fluorescent specific activity is observed in presence of the
metal. Moreover, we observed that a fluorescent activity of the Prcn-gfp can
be detected even without added cobalt (induction factor of 3 rsulting from
cobalt addition). This probably results from the leaky nature of the promoter
_rcn_ (Camille Bleriot, personal communication).

  

**Conclusion :**

Our characterisation of _rcn_ promoter shows that this promoter is inducible
by cobalt. Kinetic analysis of the promoter allowed us to establish that an
OD(600nm) of 0,2 was optimum for _rcn_ promoter activation.

To conclude, this work shows that this promoter can be used with efficiency in
a cobalt sensitive system.

  
**NB** : Corroboring results of this characterisation can be seen on the main
page of an other part characterisation, the part
BBa_K540000,[](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K540000#rcn_adherence)here.

  
**Further experiment :** In order to check that the cobalt's activation is
selective to the rcn promoter, an other kinetic mesurment is done with a
MC4100 strain transformed by a plasmid containing the pLac promoter fused with
a GFP.  
Culture condition : 100ml of M63G medium + 1ml of an overnight culture + 1ml
ampicilline in a 250ml erlen. 37°C and 250rpm.  
Every hour, a 3mL and 1mL culture sampling are done for a fluorescence
measurement and an OD(600nm) measurement respectively.  
  
![pLac-GFP](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/4/49/PLac-GFP_kinetic.png)  
  
These results show that cobalt hasn't activated the pLac promoter. So, the
cobalt activation is specific to the rcn promoter.

### Safety

This part is not toxic by itself. However, when using this part, you will
probably need to handle cobalt. Cobalt is toxic in all its forms ( ionic or
metallic ) by inhalation, ingestion or contact. Wear adapted personal
protection equipment ( labcoat, safety glasses, safety gloves ) and dispose of
it in appropriate waste containers.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 47  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K540001 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 0.2 ± 5.4%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K540001)]

Categories

//function/sensor/metal  
//promoter  
//regulation

Parameters

forward_efficiency| | positive_regulators|

