---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K515102"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,cds, receptor] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K515102)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K515102:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K515102:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K515102)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K515102)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K515102

Designed by: Atipat Patharagulpong   Group: iGEM11_Imperial_College_London
(2011-09-07)

J23100 promoter - PA2652

  
**Sequence and Features**

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

Illegal NheI site found at 7  
Illegal NheI site found at 30  

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal NgoMIV site found at 710  
Illegal NgoMIV site found at 812  
Illegal AgeI site found at 118  

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 1019  

  

**This BioBrick has been sequence verified.**

## Background

PA2652 is a malate responsive chemoreceptor originally found in _Pseudomonas
aeruginosa_ PA01[1]. [BBa_K515002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K515002)
contains an insulator, RBS sequence, and PA2652 coding sequence and its
expression is under the control of the constitutive promoter
[BBa_J23100](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_J23100). This device is used as an
additional chemoreceptor for endogenous chemotaxis system in _E. coli_ and
responds to L(-)malic acid (HO2CCH2CH(OH)CO2H).

A 15 bp insulator sequence upstream of the RBS ensures tunability of
expression through easy switching of promoters. In addition it allows the
translation initiation rate (TIR) of the RBS to remain the same, when the
promoter is replaced.

This device is compatible with motile strains of _E. coli_. It has been
transformed and tested in _E. coli_ DH5α in the vector backbone
[pSB1C3](http://parts.igem.org/Part:pSB1C3).

## Characterisation

### Quantitative analysis

A capillary assay was used to quantify the chemotactic response of cells
containing the PA2652 construct towards different concentrations of L(-)malic
acid. Cells were counted using CFU (colony forming units) and the data
obtained were normalised to a number of cells per mL. Capillaries used to
expose attractant concentrations were inserted into a bacterial suspension
containing 6x108 cells/mL.

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/2/22/ICL_CFU_final_graph.png)

_Figure 1: Dependence of bacterial chemotaxis to varied malate concetrations.
Cells containing PA2652 (BBa_K515102) have shown inreased number of cells in
capillaries with inreasing malate concentration, with a peak at 1 mM. The
number of cells drops sharply after 1 mM due to saturation. Negative control
were cells without contruct. The cell count for negative control in each of
the capillaries with increasing attractant concentration has not increased.
Data collected by Imperial iGEM 2011._

The data shows the ability of cells with the PA2652 construct to perform
chemotaxis towards malate. It also depicts varying responses of cells
expressing the PA2652 construct to increasing attractant concentrations. From
the graph it can be seen that the optimal concentration for rewired chemotaxis
towards malate of the _E. coli_ with PA2652 is 1 mM. The sharp decrease in
number of cells after 1 mM concentration is caused by malate saturation of the
chemoreceptors and the medium. Cells without the construct were unable to
perform chemotaxis towards malate and therefore the cell count did not change
with increasing attractant concentration.

### Behavioral analysis

Behavioral analysis of _E. coli_ DH5α was used to characterise the
funcionality of this device. This analysis is based on the uniformity of the
chemotactic response of a particular population. When bacteria are capable of
sensing L(-)malic acid, their behavioural response should be more uniform than
that of cells which are unable to sense the chemoattractant. Therefore their
velocity is dictated by smooth swimming or random tumbling becomes uniform as
the attractant is sensed.

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/2/26/ICL_PA2652_probability_density_function.png)

_Figure 2: Probability density function of bacterial number at observed
velocities. PA2652 cells exposed to 10 mM malate are more than 90% likely to
be moving at just over 2 μm/s. PA2652 cells that were exposed to serine had
90% probability to be moving at a velocity of just over 2 μm/s. PA2652 cells
that were not exposed to attractant were had a probability higher than 70% to
be moving at a speed of 2 μm/s. Cells without the BBa_K515102 construct were
less than 50% likely to be moving at a velocity of 2 to 4 μm/s. The data
depicts a difference in response between PA2652 cells that were and were not
exposed to an attractant. In addition, cells without the construct exhibit a
lack of uniform response when exposed to 10 mM malate. Data collected by
Imperial iGEM 2011._

From the data analysis, we can tell that the bacteria with construct
BBa_K515102, when in 10 mM malate, exhibit very uniform behaviour and are
therefore recognising the attractant. This is also confirmed by positive
control cells exposed to 10 mM serine, where the response of cells is also
highly uniform. Cells with the PA2652 construct not exposed to saturating
attractant show less uniform movement than PA2652 cells, whether exposed to
malate or serine. In addition, negative control cells fail to show uniformity
of movement, suggesting inability to recognise the saturating medium with 10
mM malate and performing their movement randomly.

## References

[1] Alvarez-Ortega C and Harwood CS (2007) Identification of malate
chemoreceptor in _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ by screening for chemotaxis defects
in an energy taxis-deficient mutant. _Applied and Environmental Microbiology_
**73** 7793-7795.

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K515102)]

Categories

//cds/receptor

Parameters

chassis| E. coli DH5α| control| J23100| device_type| Chemotaxis receptor|
ligands| Malate| origin| P. aeruginosa| resistance| Chloramphenicol

