---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K546001"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,classic, signalling, receiver, function, cellsignalling] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K546001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K546001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K546001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K546001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K546001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K546001

Designed by: M. Hesselman   Group: iGEM11_Wageningen_UR   (2011-09-14)

Lux pL controlled luxR with lux pR controlled AHL degrading enzyme AiiA(lva
tag).

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/8/8f/Visualization_LuxR_AHL_AiiA.png/520px-
Visualization_LuxR_AHL_AiiA.png)](/File:Visualization_LuxR_AHL_AiiA.png)

[](/File:Visualization_LuxR_AHL_AiiA.png "Enlarge")

A schematic representation of the BioBrick sub parts' interaction.

This device has two protein generators: The first generator ‘luxpL-
RBS-C0062-B0015’ produces an intermediate level of the LuxR protein.

The second generator ‘luxpR-RBS-C0060-B0015’ has a low basal expression of the
AiiA enzyme. AiiA is capable of degrading the quorum sensing molecule AHL.

It should be noted that if AHL is added to this system it forms a complex with
LuxR which will increase transcription of AiiA while reducing the
transcription of LuxR.

  

  

  

**Sequence and Features**

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

Illegal AgeI site found at 1283  

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 1101  

  

## Protocol/Experimental data

Functionality of this part was tested by treating AHL mixtures with strains
expressing this part. Liquid cultures were grown overnight, 1 mL aliquots of
these cultures were spun down and resuspended in varying concentrations of AHL
in PBS (to start the AHL degradation reaction). This was also done with a
culture that contains BBa_K546002 (where aiiA is replaced with GFP).

After a 3h incubation, the supernatant was collected and subjected to a
reporter strain: BBa_K546002. 200 µL samples of reporter strain/AHL mixtures
were analyzed with a Molecular Devices Spectramax M2 spectrophotometer,
detecting GFP. The result is shown below.

  
[![AHL degradation by AiiA reported by BBa
K546002correct.png](/wiki/images/c/c0/AHL_degradation_by_AiiA_reported_by_BBa_K546002correct.png)](/File:AHL_degradation_by_AiiA_reported_by_BBa_K546002correct.png)

This part is functional, as AHL concentrations drop after incubation with _E.
coli_ transformed with this part. The GFP expression is much higher in the non
treated mixtures, namely.

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K546001)]

Categories

//classic/signalling/receiver  
//function/cellsignalling

Parameters

control| (1) R0063 & (2) R0062| device_type| feedback| direction| Forward|
latency| Seconds| protein| (1) LuxR & (2) AiiA-LVA| signalling_molecule|
3OC6HSL (AHL)| switch_point| (1) 2nM

