---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K554003"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,collections, immune_regulation, sense-control] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554003)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554003:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K554003:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K554003)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[RFC: 23 ](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[7 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K554003)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K554003)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K554003

Designed by: UNICAMP EMSE Brazil team   Group: iGEM11_Brazil-France
(2011-09-21)

SoxR

SoxR is a transcription factor found in bacteria and is activated during
superoxide or nitric oxide stress. SoxR protein in solution is a homodimer
that contains two binuclear iron–sulfur clusters ([2Fe–2S]) which are then
oxidized upon superoxide stress. In this form, the protein induces
transcription through binding at SoxS promoter. Thus, in the presence of NO,
SoxR activates transcription of the gene regulated by SoxS promoter (Hidalgo
et al, 1998).

  

### Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

### Usage and Biology

The [2Fe-2S] SoxR transcription factor a member of MerR family and is an
important sensor of oxidative stress in bacteria, turning activated under
presence of superoxide and nitric oxide (NO). SoxR is activated by reversible
one-electron oxidation of its [2Fe-2S] cluster and in the active state, SoxR
activate transcription of genes containing SoxS promoter, which have a long
19- or 20-bp spacer between the -35 and -10 operator elements, by untwisting
the promoter DNA (Watanabe et al. 2008). The SoxR gene is used by [UNICAMP-
EMSE Brazil team](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-EMSE_Brazil) in the [NO
sensor device/ IL-10 producer](http://2011.igem.org/Team:UNICAMP-
EMSE_Brazil/Project#Device_2:_NO_sensor.2FIL-10_producer) ("Device 2", which
senses NO levels and responds by producing and secreting IL-10). This part is
shown in the following schema:

[![UNICAMP EMSE NO device
schema.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/9/96/UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg/600px-
UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg)](/File:UNICAMP_EMSE_NO_device_schema.jpg)

## Three-dimensional structure representation

You can find below a tridimensional structure of _Escherichia coli_ SoxR
protein bound to SoxS promoter (DNA structure) (retrieved from PDB 2zhg,
Watanabe et al. 2008). This is a jmol applet, in which you can interactively
see part of the SoxS promoter bound to its regulatory protein SoxR in a 3D
manner:  

  

## MIT_MAHE 2020

**Usage and Biology**

The soxRS regulon consists of at least 14 genes. Along with functions that
eliminate the cause of oxidative stress, repair or compensate for damage,
metabolic functions are induced that enable the cells to cope with the
oxidative stress.

The O2 - (superoxide) radical is an ion that penetrates membranes poorly.
However, other biologically generated radicals, most notably nitric oxide
(NO'), do cross lipid bilayers. NO is generated in short bursts for
intercellular signaling, or in a more sustained fashion by some immune cells
as a cytotoxic weapon (Nathan and Xie, 1994). We found recently (Nunoshiba et
al., 1993) that acute exposure to pure NO" activates the soxRS regulon in a
manner independent from O2-, and that the soxRS regulon provides a survival
advantage for E. coli after phagocytosis by murine macrophages. This increased
survival was seen only after > 4 h of phagocytosis when NO is being generated
at a high rate (Nathan and Xie, 1994).

Only Fe-SoxR stimulated transcription in vitro from the soxS promoter, up to
100-fold over the basal transcription seen with RNAP alone. These observations
led to the current model for soxRS regulation in vivo (Hidalgo and Demple,
1996b). In this model, the first step in this two-stage transcriptional
cascade involves the NO•- or O2• mediated activation of pre-existing SoxR, by
a mechanism that could involve both insertions of the iron-sulfur centers and
their oxidation (Hidalgo et al., 1995; Hidalgo and Demple, 1996a). Activated,
Fe-SoxR then induces transcription of the soxS gene. The limiting step in this
transcription activation event would not be the binding of SoxR to the soxS
promoter, but an allosteric effect that promotes open complex formation by
RNAP (Hidalgo et al., 1995).

Studies showed that the 19 bp spacing is required for effective SoxR-mediated
activation and that this unusually long distance prevents SoxR from being a
repressor.

Previous studies demonstrated the ability of FeSoxR to activate transcription
in vitro from a 180 bp wildtype promoter sequence (Hidalgo et al., 1995). A
similar analysis of the 149 bp promoter fragments using primer extension with
a new oligonucleotide was carried out to quantify the amount of soxS
transcript synthesized in the reactions. Plasmids pEH44 (wild-type, 19 bp
spacing; series 40) or pEH55 (1 bp deletion, 18 bp spacing; series 50) were
incubated with RNAP alone or with the active Fe-SoxR or the inactive apo-SoxR.
The results demonstrate that, although Fe-SoxR was required for activation of
transcription from the wild-type promoter, active SoxR was not required for
transcription from the 18 bp spacing mutant promoter. Although apo- SoxR did
not affect transcription from the pEH55 promoter detectably, there was slight
activation by Fe-SoxR.

[![SoxR-image.png](/wiki/images/b/bf/SoxR-image.png)](/File:SoxR-image.png)

### References

Watanabe S, Kita A, Kobayashi K, Miki K. Crystal structure of the [2Fe-2S]
oxidative-stress sensor SoxR bound to DNA.Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Mar
18;105(11):4121-6. Epub 2008 Mar 11. [Link to
PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18334645)

Hidalgo E, Leautaud V, Demple B (1998) The redox-regulated SoxR protein acts
from a single DNA site as a repressor and an allosteric activator. The EMBO
Journal 17(9)2629–2636 [Link to
Pubmed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=9564045%20)

Nunoshiba, T., Hidalgo, E., Amábile Cuevas, C. F., & Demple, B. (1992). Two-
stage control of an oxidative stress regulon: the Escherichia coli SoxR
protein triggers redox-inducible expression of the soxS regulatory gene.
Journal of bacteriology, 174(19), 6054–6060.
<https://doi.org/10.1128/jb.174.19.6054-6060.1992>

Demple B. (1996). Redox signaling and gene control in the Escherichia coli
soxRS oxidative stress regulon--a review. Gene, 179(1), 53–57.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/s0378-1119(96)00329-0>

Hidalgo, E., & Demple, B. (1997). Spacing of promoter elements regulates the
basal expression of the soxS gene and converts SoxR from a transcriptional
activator into a repressor. The EMBO journal, 16(5), 1056–1065.
<https://doi.org/10.1093/emboj/16.5.1056>

Wu, J., & Weiss, B. (1992). Two-stage induction of the soxRS (superoxide
response) regulon of Escherichia coli. Journal of bacteriology, 174(12),
3915–3920. <https://doi.org/10.1128/jb.174.12.3915-3920.1992>

Touati D. (2000). Sensing and protecting against superoxide stress in
Escherichia coli--how many ways are there to trigger soxRS response?. Redox
report : communications in free radical research, 5(5), 287–293.
<https://doi.org/10.1179/135100000101535825>

**Structure:** <https://www.rcsb.org/structure/2ZHH>

<https://www.rcsb.org/structure/2ZHG>

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K554003)]

Categories

//collections/immune_regulation/sense-control

Parameters

None|

