---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K584000"
author: Composite
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K584000)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K584000:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K584000:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K584000)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

[1 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K584000)

[1 Twin](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K584000)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K584000)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_composite.png)

Composite

# Part:BBa_K584000

Designed by: Bakul Jitendra Vinchhi, Sarah Veugelen, Katrien Vandermeeren,
Yana Hoorne   Group: iGEM11_KULeuven   (2011-08-16)

pBAD + GFP generator

_**Characterization**_

The **[K.U.Leuven 2011 iGEM Team](http://2011.igem.org/Team:KULeuven)** has
**_extensively characterized_** the **_existing Biobrick part_** [PBad
promoter(BBa_I13453)](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php?title=Part:BBa_I13453).

The detailed qualitative and quantitative
_**[review](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_I13453:Experience#User_Reviews)**_
has been added into the experience page of the BBa_I13453 PBad promoter
biobrick.

### Usage and Biology

## **BOKU-Vienna 2019 - Characterization**

When designing our project, we planned on incorporating a viability signal
that expresses GFP in case of living cells under the control of an arabinose
inducible promoter (pBAD). Since the construct that we cloned contained an
arabinose inducible promoter (BBa_I13453) that didn’t respond to induction
despite correct sequence, we decided to test the respective composite part
**BBa_K584000** (pBAD + GFP generator) under different arabinose
concentrations.  
The composite part **BBa_K584000** was transformed into competent Escherischia
coli (DH10B). Two clones were picked and grown on uninduced LB-media for 1
hour at 37°C on a shaker. 1mL aliquots were transferred into eprouvettes
containing 1mL LB-media with different arabinose concentrations to an end
concentration of 0, 0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.05, 0.1 mM arabinose. Fluorescence
was measured in a plate reader after 15 hours of incubation at 37°C on a
shaker together with a fluorescein standard. OD-values were measured with a
spectrophotometer right before samples were transferred into the 96-well
plate.  
  
[![T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000FluorescenceAtDifArabCon.png](/wiki/images/thumb/4/45/T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000FluorescenceAtDifArabCon.png/600px-T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000FluorescenceAtDifArabCon.png)](/File:T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000FluorescenceAtDifArabCon.png)  
Figure 1: Fluorescence at different arabinose concentrations  
  
We calculated the mean fluorescence for each arabinose concentration across
both clones, calculated the fluorescence for OD=1 and compared their
fluorescence values (see figure 1). Fluorescence did not increase
significantly after induction in comparison to the control of 0.04µM
fluorescein, which equals the fluorescence of constantly expressed GFP under a
medium strength promoter at OD600=0.5.  
  
To verify this data, the experiment was repeated as above, but with 8 hours
incubation time and different arabinose concentrations (see figure 2). Again,
as in the first experiment, **no significant change in fluorescence could be
measured after induction.**  
  
[![T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000FluorescenceAtDifArabCon2.png](/wiki/images/thumb/2/26/T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000FluorescenceAtDifArabCon2.png/600px-T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000FluorescenceAtDifArabCon2.png)](/File:T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000FluorescenceAtDifArabCon2.png)  
Figure 2: Fluorescence at different arabinose concentrations  
  
Since we could not observe an induction, we checked for correctness of the
plasmid by restriction digestion with the enzymes EcoRI and PstI (see figure
3).  
[![T--BOKU-Vienna--K584000Restriction.png](/wiki/images/8/87/T--BOKU-Vienna--
K584000Restriction.png)](/File:T--BOKU-Vienna--K584000Restriction.png)  
Figure 3: Restriction digestion of BBa_K584000 - The band near 1kb matches the
size of the insert, the band at 2kb the size of the empty pSB1C3 backbone  
  
The fact that we did not observe induction of gene expression by arabinose
could have different reasons. The cells might lack transporters for arabinose
(e.g. araE, araFGH) or are capable of effectively degrading arabinose (e.g. by
expressing araBAD genes)(Jensen et al., 1993,
<https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1432-1033.1993.tb19885.x>).  
  
Raw data from the plate reader
[here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1afDS4MYlEaA8YAkA31RwLIPdH_yAG8frl5moVshdEF8/edit?usp=sharing)  
  
Parameters: 485nm excitation, 525nm emission  
  
Materials:  
\- LB-media with Chloramphenicol  
\- Tecan Infinite 200 plate reader  
\- white 96-well plates with white flat bottoms  
\- Hitachi Photometer U-1900  
\- L(+)-Arabinose (provider: ROTH; Art.-Nr. 5118.2)  
\- 2% agarose gel  
\- Quick-Load Purple 1kb Plus DNA Ladder

  

## **Northwestern 2019 - Characterization**

The part that we chose to characterize was BBa_K584000 a pBad GFP Generator.
We wanted to characterize the optimal concentration of arabinose to induce
transcription activity of pBad promoter by measuring the fluorescence per
absorbance OD of our cells which have reporter gene (GFP) downstream. To
perform this assay, we let E. coli bacteria containing the pBad BBa_K584000
plasmid with sfGFP grow for 9 hours in a plate reader assay. We inoculated the
cultures overnight, diluted them to OD = 0.05 in the morning and we let them
grow in triplicates up until OD = 0.1. Based on a previous characterization
done, we added in arabinose concentration of 0.1% to 0.5% in increments of
0.1% in order to find the concentration at which pBad promoter is most
actively induced.

  
[![T--Northwestern--CharacterizationAssay.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/8/85/T--
Northwestern--CharacterizationAssay.jpg/600px-T--Northwestern--
CharacterizationAssay.jpg.png)](/File:T--Northwestern--
CharacterizationAssay.jpg)  

  
[![T--Northwestern--FoldActivation.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/7/71/T--
Northwestern--FoldActivation.jpg/600px-T--Northwestern--
FoldActivation.jpg.png)](/File:T--Northwestern--FoldActivation.jpg)  

#### Results

Through performing our characterization assay, we demonstrated the growth of
fluorescence per optical density of our pBad+GFP cells over time. From our
data, we were able to determine the saturation point at which the pBad
promoter was maximally induced. We additionally created a fold activation and
dose response curve using the cells which were grown in different
concentrations of arabinose. We observed through our experiments that the pBad
promoter was strongly induced as the arabinose concentration was increased.

## **University of Nebraska-Lincoln 2019**

Our team has characterized BBa_K584000 to determine the effect of L-arabinose
concentration on fluorescence produced by green fluorescent protein. To
perform this characterization, BBa_K584000 and BBa_K206000 cells were grown
overnight in LB media, with BBa_K206000 functioning as the negative control.
In the morning, the cultures were diluted to an OD of 0.05 and allowed to grow
to an OD of 0.1. At this point, arabinose was added in the following
concentrations: 0%, 0.2%, and 2%. Fluorescence was then recorded at an
excitation wavelength of 490 nm and an emission wavelength of 525 nm every
hour for eight hours.

  
[![K584.PNG](/wiki/images/8/8a/K584.PNG)](/File:K584.PNG)  

Figure 1: Fluorescence vs. time with varying concentration of arabinose.  

#### Results

Our results demonstrate that fluorescence values increased with time.
Additionally, an increase in arabinose concentration yielded a greater
fluorescence reading, with 0.2% arabinose producing the most GFP. These
results are supported by a two-tail t-test of unequal variances with a
significance level of 0.05 as shown in figure 2.

  
[![K584 t test.PNG](/wiki/images/5/58/K584_t_test.PNG)](/File:K584_t_test.PNG)  

Figure 2: p-values for BBa_K584000 when compared to a negative control
(BBa_K206000)  

  
  

  
  

**Sequence and Features**

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

Illegal NheI site found at 125  

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BamHI site found at 65  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 801  

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K584000 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 0.2 ± 5.4%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K584000)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

