---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K517003"
author: Translational_Unit
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517003)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517003:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517003:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K517003)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K517003)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_translational_unit.png)

Translational_Unit

# Part:BBa_K517003

Designed by: Marianne Park   Group: iGEM11_British_Columbia   (2011-09-21)

beta-pinene synthase

The (-)-b-pinene synthase (PsTPS-Pin2) synthase is a monoterpene synthase
isolated from Sitka spruce converts geranyl pyrophosphate to 70.5%(-)-beta-
pinene, 29.5%(-)-alpha-pinene. (-)-b-pinene synthase has been previously
characterized by expression in C41 DE3 E. coli followed by a His-tag
purification. The purified enzymes were assayed in vitro with GPP and sent for
GC-MS.

Reference: Keeling, CI, Weisshar S, Ralph SG, Jancsik S, Hamberger B, Dullat
HK, and Joerg Bohlmann. Transcriptome mining, functional characterization, and
phylogeny of a large terpene synthase gene family in spruce (Picea spp.) BMC.
2011 March 7 11:43

## Characterization by British Columbia iGEM 2011

### GC-MS analysis of Beta-Pinene Synthase function by British Columbia iGEM
2011

[![](/wiki/images/1/19/Ubcigem2011betapingcms.jpg)](/File:Ubcigem2011betapingcms.jpg)

**Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrum of Beta-pinene Synthase Products:** We
expressed the beta-pinene synthase
([BBa_K517003](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K517003)) in C41
DE3 _E. coli_ and lysed the cell culture to obtain protein extract which was
run through a nickel column to purify the HIS-tagged beta-pinene synthase. The
purified synthase was used in an _in vitro_ enzymatic assay to produce beta-
pinene from geranyl diphosphate (GPP) substrate. (A) **Monoterpene product
spectrum of our beta-pinene synthase.** Through gas chromatography mass
spectrometry, we analysed the products of the beta-pinene synthase and found
alpha-pinene and beta-pinene. This product spectrum agrees with prior findings
(Keeling et al. 2011 BMC Plant Biology). In comparison, the control without
GPP indicated by the dark blue link did not produce any monoterpenes. (B)
**Identification of alpha-pinene as a product.** Cross referencing with
standards and a compound library revealed that the beta-pinene product had the
characteristic base peaks and retention time of 3.6 minutes. Top panel
displays peak spectrum for our sample. Bottom panel displays peak spectrum for
library standard. (C) **Identification of beta-pinene as a product.** Cross
referencing with standards and a compound library revealed that the beta-
pinene product had the characteristic base peaks and retention time of 5.6
minutes. Top panel displays peak spectrum for our sample. Bottom panel
displays peak spectrum for library standard.

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K517003 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: 3.9 ± 4.2%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K517003)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

