---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K530000"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K530000)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K530000:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K530000:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K530000)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

Not Used

[1 Twin](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/twin_info.cgi?part=BBa_K530000)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K530000)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K530000

Designed by: Daniel Wolozny   Group: iGEM11_Johns_Hopkins   (2011-08-01)

CRTYB

[Toulouse_INSA-UPS 2020](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Toulouse_INSA-
UPS)contributed to the characterisation of this part by adding a new
documentation learned form literature on the expression and stability of CrtI.  
(\--[antonmykhailiuk](/wiki/index.php?title=User:Antonmykhailiuk&action=edit&redlink=1
"User:Antonmykhailiuk \(page does not exist\)") 19:10, 08 October 2020
(UTC+2))  

Enzyme in the pathway required for B-Carotene Synthesis. This enzyme is a
combination, it is the full Phytoene Synthase enzyme spliced with a Lycopene
B-Cyclase enzymatic domain. This sequence was taken from a WT strain of
xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous. It catalyzes both the conversion of
Geranylgeranyl diphosphate to Phytoene and Lycopene to B-Carotene.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI site found at 1068  
Illegal BsaI.rc site found at 1399  

  

### Plasmid Map

[![CrtYB Plasmid
Map.png](/wiki/images/8/8b/CrtYB_Plasmid_Map.png)](/File:CrtYB_Plasmid_Map.png)

### Characterization of performance

Below we can see the beta-carotene production levels on a per cell basis for
different combinations of parts involved in beta-carotene synthesis. These are
compared with a wild type control. tHMG1 is used to funnel more initial
substrate into the pathway and although useful, was not submitted as a part.
2I indicates that two copies of crtI were used.

[![Vitachar.PNG](/wiki/images/d/d8/Vitachar.PNG)](/File:Vitachar.PNG)

### Localization of crtYB-mCherry and beta-carotene in yeast

Yeast cells, previously engineered to express all genes in the beta carotene
biosynthetic pathway were subsequently transformed with a copy of crtYB
C-terminally tagged with mCherry. The subcellular localization pattern of
mCherry (crtYB-mCherry) was then assessed by fluorescence microscopy as
compared to the parental, untagged control strain (crtYB) under identical
conditions. Autofluorescence of beta carotene using a filter set for
fluorescein fluorescence was also performed. Yeast cells are shown using
differential interference contrast (DIC). Microscopy was performed at 1000X
magnification.

[![MCherry tagging of
CRTYB.png](/wiki/images/6/6d/MCherry_tagging_of_CRTYB.png)](/File:MCherry_tagging_of_CRTYB.png)

### Sequencing

[![CrtYB Sequencing
2.png](/wiki/images/e/e3/CrtYB_Sequencing_2.png)](/File:CrtYB_Sequencing_2.png)

  
This is the sequencing for colony 2.

  

# Contribution from other teams

## Toulouse_INSA-UPS 2020's contribution

### _Characterisation_

Since the CrtI (phytoene desaturase) is a part of the biosynthesis pathway of
carotenoids (fig. 1), it is often co-expressed with the other enzymes of the
pathway: such as CrtB or CrtY. Rabeharindranto et al. analyzed the expression
of single domain CrtI, CrtY, and CrtB (fig.2). CrtB is unambiguously detected
as an intense bands in all strains B, B/I or Y/B/I. On the other hand, CrtI
can be observed at the expected size (67kDa) only when coexpressed with CrtY
domain (strain Y/B/I). The explanation could be that CrtI protein needs to be
co-expressed together with CrtY to have a normal production/stability. A faint
band with 50kDa migration pattern could be observed in B/I strain which could
further support the idea of low production or stability of CrtI in absence of
CrtY.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1b/K3570011-1.png/500px-K3570011-1.png)](/File:K3570011-1.png)

[](/File:K3570011-1.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 1: From Rabeharindranto et al. 2019. Presumed biosynthetic pathway for
the synthesis of β-carotene in X. dendrorhous (Verdoes et al., 1999). The
bifunctional lycopene cyclase/phytoene synthase (CrtYB) enzyme is depicted in
orange, the phytoene desaturase enzyme (CrtI) is depicted in red. Orange or
red boxes represent the localization of the modifications introduced by the
CrtYB or CrtI enzymes respectively.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1c/BBa_K2407309-1.png/300px-
BBa_K2407309-1.png)](/File:BBa_K2407309-1.png)

[](/File:BBa_K2407309-1.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 2: From Rabeharindranto et al. 2019. Expression of the different
constructs in crude extracts detected in western blots. For other details,
please refer to [1]

The second point concerns the presence of a natural fusion of CrtY (lycopene
cyclase) and CrtB(phytoene synthase). Although, in eucaryotes, CrtB enzyme is
predicted to be cytosolic and CrtY enzyme is predicted to be transmembrane
[2], surprisingly, there is a natural fusion between CrtY and CrtB which gives
CrtYB enzyme[3]. There is a strong opinion on the importance of this natural
fusion on the activity of phytoene synthase [4,5]. Rabeharindranto et al.
confirmed the impact of CrtY and CrtB splitting on the phytoene production as
it has significantly decreased (40 times) in the B strain compared to the
Y(yb)B strain (fig. 3).

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/7/71/BBa_K2407309.png/600px-
BBa_K2407309.png)](/File:BBa_K2407309.png)

[](/File:BBa_K2407309.png "Enlarge")

Fig. 3: From Rabeharindranto et al. 2019. Quantification of carotenoids from
the strains bearing single domains enzymes. Major carotenoids were quantified
from strains expressing single domain enzymes (B, B/I, B/I/Y) and are compared
to data obtained for strain Y(yb)B (left side) or Y(yb)B/I (right side).
Metabolites are colored according to the legend in the right. The metabolic
pathway from phytoene to carotene is depicted at the top with the same color
code as previously, white squares correspond to intermediate metabolites that
were not detected. Values represent the average ± S.D. of the quantification
of each metabolite with three independent cultures. For other details, please
refer to [1]

  

### _References for Toulouse_INSA-UPS 2020's contribution_

  * [1]Rabeharindranto, H., Castaño-Cerezo, S., Lautier, T., Garcia-Alles, L. F., Treitz, C., Tholey, A., & Truan, G. (2019). Enzyme-fusion strategies for redirecting and improving carotenoid synthesis in S. cerevisiae. Metabolic Engineering Communications, 8, e00086. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mec.2019.e00086>
  * [2]Schaub, P., Yu, Q., Gemmecker, S., Poussin-Courmontagne, P., Mailliot, J., McEwen, A.G., et al., 2012. On the structure and function of the phytoene desaturase CRTI from Pantoea ananatis, a membrane-peripheral and FAD-dependent oxidase/isomerase. PLoS One 7, e39550. <http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0039550>
  * [3]Verdoes, J.C., Krubasik, P., Sandmann, G., Van Ooyen, A.J.J., 1999. Isolation and functional characterisation of a novel type of carotenoid biosynthetic gene from Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous. Mol. Gen. Genet. MGG 262, 453–461.
  * [4]Niklitschek, M., Alcaíno, J., Barahona, S., Sepúlveda, D., Lozano, C., Carmona, M., et al., 2008. Genomic organization of the structural genes controlling the astaxanthin biosynthesis pathway of Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous. Biol. Res. 41, 93–108. <http://dx.doi.org/10.4067/S0716-97602008000100011>.
  * [5]Xie, W., Lv, X., Ye, L., Zhou, P., Yu, H., 2015a. Construction of lycopene-overproducing

Saccharomyces cerevisiae by combining directed evolution and metabolic
engineering. Metab. Eng. 30, 69–78.
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ymben.2015.04.009>.

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K530000)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

