---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K808025"
author: Coding
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,cds, enzyme, function, degradation] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K808025)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K808025:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K808025:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K808025)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[3 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K808025)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K808025)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_coding.png)

Coding

# Part:BBa_K808025

Designed by: Marie Burghard, Henrik Cordes, Jascha Diemer, Adrian Eilingsfeld,
Sven Jager, Rene Sahm, Arne Wehling   Group: iGEM12_TU_Darmstadt
(2012-09-02)

FsC: Cutinase PET cleaving enzyme

A cutinase is a cuticula degrading hydrolase from the fungus Fusarium solani
pisi. It shows activity towards PET.

  

### Usage and Biology

The characterization of FsC occured in 3 different ways.

Our [Simulation
Lab](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Labjournal/Simulation) performed

  * [Docking Simulation](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K808025#Docking_Simulation)

Our [Material Science
Lab](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Project/Material_Science)
performed

  * [Surface analysis of polyethylene terephthalat with atomic force microscopy](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K808025#Surface_analysis_of_polyethylene_terephthalat_with_atomic_force_microscopy)

Our [Degradation
Lab](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Project/Degradation)

  * [Enzyme Activity assay](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K808025#Enzyme_Activity_Assay)

#### Docking Simulation

[Docking
Simulations](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Modeling_Docking#Docking)

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/0/04/FsC2.png/400px-FsC2.png)](/File:FsC2.png)

[](/File:FsC2.png "Enlarge")

Figure 1: Homology model of _Fusarium solani cutinase_ , special thanks and
regards to our Simulation Lab

We extracted binding energy from the atomic B-factors and the binding constant
from the atomic property derived from all our calculations. We used scatter
plots with the binding constant and the inhibition constant in order to
compare the plasticizer as well as the PET substrate. We compared the binding
energies as well as the inhibition constant from the best ranked docking runs.

Here, OET (dimeric state) became our reference substrate, meaning if an
additive exhibits a higher inhibition constant it may effect our protein.
Otherwise, if a binding energy exhibits a higher level than OET we can
conclude that an additive may accumulate on our protein surface. Moreover, we
compare the binding as well as the inhibition energies of the additives with
itself to identify the strongest binder. Since we know the active site of the
Fs. Cutinase and the PnB Est. 13, it will be interesting if a plastizicer may
dock there. In order to analyze that, we counted the residues which are
involved within every docking simulation. Therefore, we measured the distance
of every ligand to its corresponding receptor with an appropriate threshold
and thus identified the residues.

  
For the sake of convenience of this page, please visit our [Simulation Lab >
Docking
Simulation](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Modeling_Docking#Docking)
for further informtion.

#### Surface analysis of polyethylene terephthalat with atomic force
microscopy

[Surface analysis of polyethylene terephthalat with atomic force
microscopy](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Labjournal/Material_Science#Surface_analysis_of_polyethylene_terephthalate_with_atomic_force_microscopy_.28AFM.29)

Atomic force microscopy is used to make very precise surface analysis up to
nanometer scale. The goal was to indentify differences between different
modifications of polyethylene terephthalate and to proof enzymatic degradation
by changed surface properties.

##### Experiment 1

A piece of a PET water bottle is melted between two metal plates using a heat
gun to create a flat sample. It is incubated for 24 h at 37 °C after applying
a solution of 90 µmol/L FsC. The Sample is washed with distilled water and
dried in a cabinet dryer at 60 °C for 1 h. The samples are investigated using
AFM. Surface modifications of PET induced by FsC could be observed in form of
circular perforations. Measurements in this area show a surface profile of
(±100 nm). Measurements of the reference show a surface profile of (±30 nm).
The pictures below show surface profiles and light microscopic captures of the
non treated PET reference and the FsC treated PET surface.

**AFM of PET surface after FsC exposure:**

[![AFM FSC.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/4/48/AFM_FSC.jpg/220px-
AFM_FSC.jpg)](/File:AFM_FSC.jpg) [![Optisch
FSC.png](/wiki/images/thumb/8/8a/Optisch_FSC.png/220px-
Optisch_FSC.png)](/File:Optisch_FSC.png)

**AFM of the PET surface as reference:**

[![AFM Referenz.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/9/9f/AFM_Referenz.jpg/220px-
AFM_Referenz.jpg)](/File:AFM_Referenz.jpg) [![Optisch
Referenz.png](/wiki/images/thumb/4/43/Optisch_Referenz.png/220px-
Optisch_Referenz.png)](/File:Optisch_Referenz.png)

##### Experiment 2

Pieces of PET foil were added to a 2 µmol/L solution of FsC. The solution was
constantly agitated in 50 mL falcon tubes. After 7 days the samples were
washed with distilled water and dried in a cabinet dryer at 60 °C over night.
Afterwards the samples are investigated using AFM. FsC induced surface
modification of PET could be observed. The Pictures below show 3D models,
height profiles and the cantilevers amplitude as well as the phase deviations.
The 3D models give a first impression of the texture of the surface. Looking
at the height profile and the amplitude deviation more detailed informations
about the surface texture can be obtained. The reference samples show a very
flat surface (±3 nm). Bigger deviations are due to manufactionary mistakes of
the foil. FsC treated surfaces show a deviation ten times bigger than non
treated ones (±30 nm). Comparing the phase deviation of FsC treated surfaces
with the reference, there can be seen big diferences due to varying mechanical
properties. These are caused by degradation by FsC. The Polymer chains are cut
in to smaller pieces which then stand out of the surface, letting it swell.
The resulting surface is not only rougher but persumably less dense and
therefore less firm.

**AFM of PET foil after FsC exposure :**

[![3D FSC 1
1.png](/wiki/images/thumb/6/61/3D_FSC_1_1.png/220px-3D_FSC_1_1.png)](/File:3D_FSC_1_1.png)
[![AFM FSC 1.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/7/7f/AFM_FSC_1.jpg/220px-
AFM_FSC_1.jpg)](/File:AFM_FSC_1.jpg) [![AFM FSC 1 Amplitude
auto.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/d/de/AFM_FSC_1_Amplitude_auto.jpg/220px-
AFM_FSC_1_Amplitude_auto.jpg)](/File:AFM_FSC_1_Amplitude_auto.jpg) [![AFM FSC
1 Phase.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/0/08/AFM_FSC_1_Phase.jpg/220px-
AFM_FSC_1_Phase.jpg)](/File:AFM_FSC_1_Phase.jpg)

[![3D
FSC.png](/wiki/images/thumb/b/b8/3D_FSC.png/220px-3D_FSC.png)](/File:3D_FSC.png)
[![AFM FSC 2.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/e/e5/AFM_FSC_2.jpg/220px-
AFM_FSC_2.jpg)](/File:AFM_FSC_2.jpg) [![AFM FSC 2 Amplitude
auto.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/2/2c/AFM_FSC_2_Amplitude_auto.jpg/220px-
AFM_FSC_2_Amplitude_auto.jpg)](/File:AFM_FSC_2_Amplitude_auto.jpg) [![AFM FSC
2 Phase.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/c/ca/AFM_FSC_2_Phase.jpg/220px-
AFM_FSC_2_Phase.jpg)](/File:AFM_FSC_2_Phase.jpg)

**AFM of PET foil as reference :**

[![3D Referenz
2.png](/wiki/images/thumb/1/1e/3D_Referenz_2.png/220px-3D_Referenz_2.png)](/File:3D_Referenz_2.png)
[![AFM Referenz 1.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/9/91/AFM_Referenz_1.jpg/220px-
AFM_Referenz_1.jpg)](/File:AFM_Referenz_1.jpg) [![AFM Referenz 1 Amplitude
auto.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/e/ed/AFM_Referenz_1_Amplitude_auto.jpg/220px-
AFM_Referenz_1_Amplitude_auto.jpg)](/File:AFM_Referenz_1_Amplitude_auto.jpg)
[![AFM Referenz 1
Phase.jpg](/wiki/images/thumb/5/5c/AFM_Referenz_1_Phase.jpg/220px-
AFM_Referenz_1_Phase.jpg)](/File:AFM_Referenz_1_Phase.jpg)

#### Enzyme Activity Assay

[Enzyme activity
assay](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Labjournal/Degradation#Enzyme_Activity_Assays)

#### pNP-Assay

We used a [pNP-
Assay](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Protocols/pNP_Assay#pNP-Assay)
in order to describe.

Conditions were set at: T = 34°C and pH = 7.4. The method is simple. The
absorption is measured every minute over 30 minutes by an ELISA reader capable
of 96 well plates, after addition of enzyme. The released pNP-group has a
typical absorption at 405nm wavelength.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/2/20/Pnpb_spalt.png/600px-
Pnpb_spalt.png)](/File:Pnpb_spalt.png)

[](/File:Pnpb_spalt.png "Enlarge")

The mechanism of pNPB degradation. The release of pNP is measured by the
characteristic absorption at 405 nm

  

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/c/c5/Lineburk_fsc.png/600px-
Lineburk_fsc.png)](/File:Lineburk_fsc.png)

[](/File:Lineburk_fsc.png "Enlarge")

Lineweaver-Burk plot of the enzymatic activity of FsC. The kinectics were
quantified by measuring the absorbtion at 405 nm over time. 405 nm is the
characteristic absorption of pNP, being released due to hydrolytic activity of
FsC

##### Km and Vmax calculation

To find Km the growth of the first twelve data points were written down in
another diagram. The slope of the regression line gave the speed of the
hydrolysis for the single substrate concentrations. Now the value of the speed
with the associated concentration of substrate were plotted in a Lineweaver-
Burk diagram. At the point where the regression line is crossing the x-axis
the x-coordinate amounts to -1/Km. So Km is about 400µM. To calculate the
value of Vmax we used the point where the plotted line crosses the y-axis. The
associated y-coordinate is 1/Vmax. Consequently Vmax for 5nM FsC is 0,001467
1/s.

##### Kcat calculation

The Kcat value is calculated through dividing Vmax by the enzyme concentration
of 5nM. Kcat counts 0,293395 1/mol*s.

#### Indicator Assay

For a more visual proof of enzymatic activity we used _Monomethyl
terephthalate_ as a substrate and FsC as a catalyst. We used [bromthymol
blue](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bromothymol_blue) as an indicator. The
release of COOH groups, due to hydrolytic degradation by FsC results in a
colometric change from green to blue. For a more detailed description please
visit our [labjournal> Degradation of monomethyl
terephthalate](http://2012.igem.org/Team:TU_Darmstadt/Labjournal/Degradation#Degradation_of_monomethyl_terephthalate_over_time)

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/46/Principle_of_degradation_of_monomethyl_terephthalate.png/400px-
Principle_of_degradation_of_monomethyl_terephthalate.png)](/File:Principle_of_degradation_of_monomethyl_terephthalate.png)

[](/File:Principle_of_degradation_of_monomethyl_terephthalate.png "Enlarge")

Principle of degradation of monomethyl terephthalate.

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/4/4f/Monomethyl_terephthalate_degradation_at_day_1.jpg/435px-
Monomethyl_terephthalate_degradation_at_day_1.jpg)](/File:Monomethyl_terephthalate_degradation_at_day_1.jpg)

[](/File:Monomethyl_terephthalate_degradation_at_day_1.jpg "Enlarge")

Day1: Degradation of monomethyl terephthalate. Left: with Est13(~0,8µM)
Middle: with FSC(~8µM) Right: Negativ sample

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/b/bd/Monomethyl_terephthalate_degradation_at_day_8.jpg/435px-
Monomethyl_terephthalate_degradation_at_day_8.jpg)](/File:Monomethyl_terephthalate_degradation_at_day_8.jpg)

[](/File:Monomethyl_terephthalate_degradation_at_day_8.jpg "Enlarge")

Day8: Degradation of monomethyl terephthalate. Left: with Est13(~0,8µM)
Middle: with FSC(~8µM) Right: Negativ sample

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

Illegal NotI site found at 379  

  * 21

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

Illegal BglII site found at 525  

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

INCOMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

Illegal BsaI site found at 301  

  

### Applications of BBa_K808025

This part was used by Tianjin 2015 in its Stimulated Plastic Enzymolysis.We
aim to enhance the effect of FsC by the addition of hydrophobin and make them
into a fusion protein. We could provide abundant data about its expression in
E.coli. You could also find its fusion protein in BBa_K1582020,
BBa_K1582021,BBa_K1582022 and BBa_K1582023.

#### Protein Expression

Protein pre-expression FsCUse pET-28a as expression vector and pre-express
FsC, FsC-sJanus, FsC- sJanus-m in BL21. Analyze the result of SDS-PAGE to
infer whether protein FsC, FsC-sJanus, FsC-sJanus-m express after induced by
IPTG.

![Tianjin_co3.png](http://2015.igem.org/wiki/images/8/8e/Tianjin_co3.png)  
**Figure 2.** The results of SDS-PAGE. M is Protein marker. a is sample of FsC
which is non-induced. b is sample of FsC which is induced.

We can tell the difference (in red circle) between non-induced and induced.
The amount of protein after induced is larger than non-induced and molecular
weight is about 25kDa which is target protein’s molecular weight. So we infer
that FsC can express in E.coli BL21.  
·Inoculation of LB-media with BL21_ FsC _pET-28a; Overnight incubation at 37°C  
·Dump cultivated bacteria into 1L liquid LB medium. Cultivate for 4h at 37°C.
Add 1M IPTG 500μL and induce at 16°C for 15h.  
·Centrifugation of 1L LB medium at 4000rpm for 20min and discard supernatant.  
·Crush bacteria with High Pressure Homogenizer.  
·Centrifugation at 18000rpm for 30min.  
·Purify protein with nickel column.  

![Tianjin_co3.png](http://2015.igem.org/wiki/images/8/8e/Tianjin_co3.png)  
**Figure 2.** The result of protein BL21_FsC expression. M is Protein marker.
a is sample of FsC in BL21 which is non-induced. b is sample of FsC in BL21
which is induced. c is sample of supernatant after breaking bacteria and
centrifugation d is sample of sediment after breaking bacteria and
centrifugation. e if sample of liquid after filtration by Ni column. f is
sample of media after filtration by Ni column. g is sample of liquid after
removing impurity with 50mM MCAC. h is sample of media after removing impurity
with 50mM MCAC. i is sample of target protein after washing with 200mM MCAC. j
is sample of media after washing with 200mM MCAC.

There is still a little protein combine with media after washing with 200mM
MCAC.  
Nanodrop measurements of the purified protein FsC: 0.414mg/mL  
·Concentrate FsC with concentration tube and change the buffer from 200mM MCAC
to 1X PBS because 200mM MCAC is noxious for enzyme. Final concentration is
2.870mg/mL  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K808025 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: -1.1 ± 4.8%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K808025)]

Categories

//cds/enzyme  
//function/degradation

Parameters

protein|

