---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K541526"
author: Device
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, bsubtilis] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541526)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541526:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541526:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K541526)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[2 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K541526)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K541526)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_device.png)

Device

# Part:BBa_K541526

Designed by: Fazilet Guler   Group: iGEM11_FAGEM   (2011-07-19)

  
reflectin for b.subtilis with LipA signal peptide

Constitutive promoter veg(BBa_K143012) coupled to the strong Ribosome Binding
Site spoVG(BBa_K143021) from B. subtilis. These parts have been taken from
2008_Imperial_Collage. Pveg is a constitutive promoter that constitutively
expresses the P43 protein in B. subtilis. SpoVG is an endogenous ribosome
binding site from B. subtilis. The sequence of the spoVG ribosome binding site
is AAAGGUGGUGA which is complementary to the sequence UUUCCUCCACU from the 3'
region of the 16s rRNA from B. subtilis. LipA is a signal peptide from the B.
subtilis genome. In general, signal peptides are responsible for directing
preproteins (secretory proteins with a signal peptide region attached)through
an appropriate secretory pathway[3]. LipA has been successfully used in the
secretion of heterologous proteins such as cutinase by B. subtilis. Reflectin
is a self-assembling protein that has the ability to reflect the sun light
which depends on the thickness of the protein layer. Therefore, we thought
that this ability could be used as a novel reporter for B.subtilis and E.coli.

Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

### Functional Parameters

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/7/7a/T--Austin_Utexas--
high_significant_burden.png)

**Burden Value: 32.9 ± 7.8%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This part exhibited a significant burden. Users should be
aware that BioBricks with a burden of >20-30% may be susceptible to mutating
to become less functional or nonfunctional as an evolutionary consequence of
this fitness cost. This risk increases as they used for more bacterial cell
divisions or in larger cultures. Users should be especially careful when
combining multiple burdensome parts, as plasmids with a total burden of >40%
are expected to mutate so quickly that they become unclonable. Refer to any
one of the [BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods and other conclusions from a large-scale
measurement project conducted by the [2019 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas)

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](https://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K541526)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/bsubtilis

Parameters

None|

