---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K517001"
author: Regulatory
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517001)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517001:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K517001:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K517001)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: Works

Not Used

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K517001)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_regulatory.png)

Regulatory

# Part:BBa_K517001

Designed by: Joe Ho   Group: iGEM11_British_Columbia   (2011-09-10)

GPD constitutive yeast promoter

Promoter for constitutively high expression.

Reference: This promoter is commonly used in several yeast vectors including
the [Advanced Gateway Vectors](http://www.addgene.org/yeast-gateway/).

Book reference: Christine Guthrie, Gerald R. Fink. 2004. Guide to Yeast
Genetics and Molecular and Cell Biology, Volume 1. Gulf Professional
Publishing. Chapter 26: Vectors for Constitutive and Inducible Gene Expression
in Yeast. Page 391.

  

## Characterization by British Columbia iGEM 2011

The GPD promoter
([BBa_K517001](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K517001)) and GAL
promoter
([BBa_K517000](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/index.php/Part:BBa_K517000)) as
characterized by their regulation of the expression of a GFP reporter.

### FACS Analysis of GFP expression as regulated by GPD and GAL Promoters

[![](/wiki/images/a/a9/Ubcigem2011Promoterfacs.jpg)](/File:Ubcigem2011Promoterfacs.jpg)

**FACS Analysis of GFP expression as regulated by GPD and GAL Promoters:** _S.
cerevisiae_ yeast strains containing either the GPD-GFP or GAL-GFP construct
were cultured overnight at 30 degrees Celsius in either YPD (dextrose), SC-
raffinose or SC-galactose media. These were diluted 1 in 10 in their
respective media and grown for 3 hours at 30 degrees Celsius into log phase.
The cells were then spun down and samples were collected at 0 hours. The
remaining cells were resuspended in SC-galactose media and left to grow at 30
degrees Celsius for 2 hours. The cells were spun down again and samples were
collected that this 2 hour time point. The samples were fixed in
paraformaldehyde and sonicated before running them through the FACS machine to
determine the GFP expression profiles of each strain at each time point. Each
profile was plotted with y-axis as counts of cells and x-axis as amount of GFP
reading. The GPD-GFP strain's profile did not vary much over the course of the
induction regardless of the media it was originally cultured in. However, the
GAL-GFP strain experienced a comparably notable shift in the numbers of cells
expressing higher levels of GFP when the strain was shifted into SC-galactose
media. This profile shift was stronger when the strain was originally cultured
in SC-raffinose instead of YPD (dextrose) media, which is expected since
dextrose is known to more strongly repress the GAL promoter.

### Fluorescence Analysis of GFP expression as regulated by GPD and GAL
Promoters

[![](/wiki/images/8/8e/Ubcigem2011Promoterimages0.jpg)](/File:Ubcigem2011Promoterimages0.jpg)

**Fluorescence Analysis of GFP expression as regulated by GPD and GAL
Promoters:** _S. cerevisiae_ yeast strains containing either the GPD-GFP or
GAL-GFP construct were cultured overnight at 30 degrees Celsius in either YPD
(dextrose), SC-raffinose or SC-galactose media. These were diluted 1 in 10 in
their respective media and grown for 3 hours at 30 degrees Celsius into log
phase. The cells were then spun down and samples were collected at 0 hours.
The remaining cells were resuspended in SC-galactose media and left to grow at
30 degrees Celsius for 2 hours. The cells were spun down again and samples
were collected that this 2 hour time point. The samples were fixed in
paraformaldehyde and visualized under a fluorescence microscope under the GFP
and DIC settings. Acquired images were then color-combined with red
representing DIC and green representing GFP. Microscopy images show that the
GPD promoter results in constitutive high expression while the GAL promoter is
induced by the shift to galactose media.

  

## Characterization by **[iGEM Kyoto 2017](http://2017.igem.org/Team:Kyoto) **

We used this promoter in order to express long hairpin RNA in yeast. Long
hairpin RNA targeting _B. xylophilus_ AK1 mRNA or GFP mRNA was cloned
downstream of the promoter and introduced into the 2-micron high copy number
plasmid of budding yeast, and subsequently expressed in yeast. The Gal1
promoter ( **[BBa_J63006](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_J63006) **) was used
as a control.

Results of detection by qRT-PCR were as follows

[![](/wiki/images/thumb/3/33/%E3%83%97%E3%83%AD%E3%83%A2%E3%83%BC%E3%82%BF%E3%83%BC%E6%AF%94%E8%BC%83%E8%A1%A8.jpg/500px-%E3%83%97%E3%83%AD%E3%83%A2%E3%83%BC%E3%82%BF%E3%83%BC%E6%AF%94%E8%BC%83%E8%A1%A8.jpg.png)](/File:%E3%83%97%E3%83%AD%E3%83%A2%E3%83%BC%E3%82%BF%E3%83%BC%E6%AF%94%E8%BC%83%E8%A1%A8.jpg)

[](/File:%E3%83%97%E3%83%AD%E3%83%A2%E3%83%BC%E3%82%BF%E3%83%BC%E6%AF%94%E8%BC%83%E8%A1%A8.jpg
"Enlarge")

**Figure 1 : Results of detection by qRT-PCR (qRT-PCR targeted to the loop
portion of hairpin. Data was normalized with 25S rRNA. n=3 )**

  
As a result, it was revealed that the constitutive GPD promoter had low RNA
expression level. That level was even lower than from the conditional Gal1
promoter (BBa_J63006) in Glucose (Glu) medium, a condition which suppresses
expression from Gal1promoter. We conducted another experiment with a longer
500 bp promoter which contains this GPD promoter sequence(we used TDH3
promoter of **[BBa_K530008](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K530008) **), and
it was confirmed that the longer promoter has stronger expression. Therefore
we cannot recommend using this part (BBa_K517001) for expressing protein
excessively.

## Contribution

### Addition of loop for hairpin-dsRNA to BBa_K517001

**[iGEM Kyoto 2017](http://2017.igem.org/Team:Kyoto) ** has modified this part
so that it can also be used for dsRNA expression (see
**[BBa_K2403004](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K2403004) **).

In order to kill pine wood nematodes by feeding RNAi, we used this part as a
promoter to express hairpin-dsRNA in yeast. Then we confirmed the expression
level of dsRNA in yeast by qRT-PCR and fed the yeast to pine wood nematodes.

We attached a hairpin loop sequence to this part so that you can easily make
hairpin loop- dsRNA targeted to your favorite gene. You can create a plasmid
transcribing dsRNA with a hairpin loop which can be expressed in budding yeast
by cleaving with the restriction enzyme NotI, connecting the sense part
between the promoter and loop parts, then cleaving with the restriction enzyme
HindIII for ligating the antisense part.

  

  

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K517001)]

Categories

Parameters

None|

