---
layout: post
title:  "BBa_K541506"
author: Generator
categories: [collection 1 - 2021,chassis, prokaryote, bsubtilis, chassis, prokaryote, ecoli] 
image: assets/images/6.jpg
---


  * [main page](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541506)
  * [design](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541506:Design)
  * [experience](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa K541506:Experience)
  * [information](http://parts.igem.org/cgi/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa K541506)
  *   * 

[Released HQ 2013](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

[Sample In stock](http://parts.igem.org/Help:Part_Status_Box)

Experience: None

[6 Uses](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/uses.cgi?part=BBa_K541506)

[ Get This Part](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/get_part.cgi?part=BBa_K541506)

![](http://parts.igem.org/images/partbypart/icon_generator.png)

Generator

# Part:BBa_K541506

Designed by: Fazilet Guler   Group: iGEM11_FAGEM   (2011-07-19)

  
Reflectin1A from Cephalopod

Reflectin is a self-assembling protein that has the ability to reflect the sun
light which depends on the thickness of the protein layer. Therefore, we
thought that this ability could be used as a novel reporter for B.subtilis and
E.coli.

Reflectin Proteins

Many cephalopods (octopuses, squids, cuttlefish, etc.) demonstrate camouflage
capabilities by adaptive transparency. Some chalepods can even vanish from the
environment by performing these capabilities. These animals can change the
optical properties of their skin, how their skin transmits, absorbs, and
reflects light [3]. Reflectivity in these animal tissues is achieved by
stacking flat, insoluble, structural platelets by alternating layers of high
and low refractive index in iridocytes [4]. This alternate arrangement, called
a Bragg reflector, creates a thin-film interference pattern which is the
reason for reflection of incident light from the tissue [3]. In aquatic
animals, reflector platelets generally consist of purine crystals,
particularly guanine and hypoxanthine. However, cephalopod reflector platelets
contain reflectin proteins instead of these purine crystals. Reflectin
proteins found in cephalopods are responsible for transparency abilities by
employing structural coloration and iridescence [1, 2].

Optical characterization of these proteins is an important work for studies
using reflectin proteins. However, it is hard to characterize the refractive
index of these proteins since there are multiple Bragg stacks with unknown
variation in spacings, refractive indices and orientations in a typical tissue
of a chalepod. Ghoshal et al (2014) employed a microspectroscopy procedure to
investigate these properties. They found a progressively higher refractive
index from 1.33 to 1.43 from the same Bragg stack as they immersed these Bragg
stacks in solutions of different reflectivities.

[1] Junko Ogawa et al. (2020) Genetic manipulation of the optical refractive
index in living cells <https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.07.09.196436>

[2] Atrouli Chatterjee et al. (2020) Cephalopod-inspired optical engineering
of human cells <https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-16151-6>

[3] Wendy J. Crookes et al. (2004) Reflectins: The Unusual Proteins of Squid
Reflective Tissues <https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1091288>

[4] Amitabh Ghoshal et al. (2014) Experimental determination of refractive
index of condensed reflectin in squid iridocytes
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2014.0106>

  
Sequence and Features

  

Assembly Compatibility:

  * 10

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[10]

  * 12

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[12]

  * 21

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[21]

  * 23

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[23]

  * 25

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[25]

  * 1000

COMPATIBLE WITH RFC[1000]

  

  

## Functional Parameters: Austin_UTexas

BBa_K541506 parameters

### Burden Imposed by this Part:

![](http://parts.igem.org/wiki/images/f/fa/T--Austin_Utexas--
no_burden_icon.png)

**Burden Value: -1.8 ± 1.2%**

Burden is the percent reduction in the growth rate of _E. coli_ cells
transformed with a plasmid containing this BioBrick (± values are 95%
confidence limits). This BioBrick did not exhibit a burden that was
significantly greater than zero (i.e., it appears to have little to no impact
on growth). Therefore, users can depend on this part to remain stable for many
bacterial cell divisions and in large culture volumes. Refer to any one of the
[BBa_K3174002](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174002) \-
[BBa_K3174007](http://parts.igem.org/Part:BBa_K3174007) pages for more
information on the methods, an explanation of the sources of burden, and other
conclusions from a large-scale measurement project conducted by the [2019
Austin_UTexas team](http://2019.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas).

This functional parameter was added by the [2020 Austin_UTexas
team.](http://2020.igem.org/Team:Austin_UTexas/Contribution)

[[edit](http://parts.igem.org/partsdb/part_info.cgi?part_name=BBa_K541506)]

Categories

//chassis/prokaryote/bsubtilis  
//chassis/prokaryote/ecoli

Parameters

None|

